essay_id	essay_set	essay	domain1_score
112	1	Dear @PERSON1, @CAPS1 these days are telling kids to go outside instead of vegging out in front of a computer. Computers can but promote bad habits. I try not to use the computer unless I have too for school or to get homework. Please consider the negative effects which are exercising in apropprate content and less interaction with friends/family. Yes internets can be used to find diets and exercise plans but if you would just go to the gym to burn of those pounds everything would be just fine! Internet and computers are designed to suck in your brain, and attack you to all the websites and neat little things. It is more effective just to go to a local @ORGANIZATION2 or @ORGANIZATION1 to work out. I swim on a swim team for a @ORGANIZATION2. I love swimming better than going on the computer. It satisfies my personal needs of exercising. I lost @NUM1 pounds by just swimming for a month. I will run on the tred mill to help me burn of stress or anger. Gyms are way better than computers. I know most of us have seen something inapropprate on the computer. Yes computers give people jobs but there is no need to post pictures or messages that will hurt peoples feelings. I know the other day I saw a really mean comment that made me feel bad for the victim. I know youtube is trying to stop inappropriate content, so hurray for them. Once you give something to the internet it is lost forever. Yes computers have ways to keep in touch with friends but it is better to @CAPS3 or visit in person. Like my @CAPS2 always said," @CAPS3 more, it builds character!" @CAPS4 ever I get the chance I @CAPS3 my best buddies instead of using the computer. Kids theses days can be mean with out try. You disconnect yourself from your family. Because computers attrack users, there are times where you don't pay attention to others around you. @PERCENT1 of kids donot do there home work because of computers. Thank you for your time. I think computers are bad and everyone would be happy with out them. They help the obesity level in the nation, let cyber bullying and inappronrate content flow around the internet and lastly block you out from the world. ( @CAPS5.S someday computers are going to take over the world and you will be sorry you didn't listen to me.)	10
113	1	Dear @CAPS1 paper, @CAPS2 name is @PERSON1 and I am writing this letter on the count of the computer issue. @CAPS2 look on this subject is the oppisite. People @MONTH1 spend more time on the computer then exercising, but theycould still be social in chat rooms. People can use laptops out doors. You can spread your imagination with the games you can play. Lets get onto @CAPS2 first point, being social. The experts say that people are spending less time with there friends and family then on the computer. They @MONTH1 be spending less time with there friend and family physicly, but who said there not being social. Theres facebook, @CAPS3, and chat rooms. You can talk to your friend on there so they on being social. Not being physicly social but verbily social. On to @CAPS2 next subject the expert say were not enjoying out doors, but the over looked something here it is. If were not enjoying outdoors then half of amarica would be as plae as can be. Then theres laptops. You can use thoughs out doors. People that have laptops can go outside on a sunny day grab some fruit and relax. You could stay out there till the batterie deis. Then just grab the pluge and keep relaxing its easy. Computers also help your imagination. Some computer games help expand your imagination because when your playing games you think of things that could make the game better. Simulaters help you design or even controll things. Some games allow you design and play as a character you created. They help you jobs that you might be intrested in. For me computer games expanded @CAPS2 drawing. All these thing can be reversed. No one is a robot that repeats what they do over and over again. Humanity has the power to get off the computer, and go outside or be social. As I just proved everything you can physicly you can do on the computer.	10
114	1	Dear @CAPS1 @CAPS2, Computers do put possitive affect on people and it also teaches us. So I think computers are very important and they are needed in people lives. We learn information about the world and about what is going on. It also helps us comunicate with friends and family. Lastly it can help us gather information for homework and projects. First, while we are on the computer it tells us baout the world and different countries. The computers tell us how the war is and about what the president is doing. The computer also gives us information about local news such as weather, traffic reports and if there has been a crime that has happended. We also can find out about the stockmarket which is very important to many people. Second, the computer gives the ability to talk with friends and family. AIM, @CAPS3, and @CAPS4 are all different ways to interact with each other. Also if we didn't hand something in at school we could always just e-mail our teachers the information that they might need by a spacific date, if a student forgets what the homework was we can just ask on the computer. Many people find old friends that they haven't seen in years, and getting to see them again and how their family is, it could make someone feel happy about knowing that their old friend has grown happy. Lastly, if students have project or homework that they need information on the computer could always help. On the computer there is a lot of information about people, places, thing, and anything you want to know. The computer gives you answer to question you @MONTH1 have. You can get pictures and information of the thing you are looking up. It also gives you location and dates of different events that have happened in what you are looking up. Computers are very useful when it comes to sudents education. In conclusion, Computers are a very important part of everyones life. To learn about information that is happening in the world, to talk to friends or family, and to help with school work. Even if people aren't exercising they are increasing their education by finding information. You can still enjoy nature, but not as much as ussuall; you still spend time with family and friends by comunicating on the computer. Computers are one of the gratest inventions, and does have a positive effect on people. 	10
115	1	Dear Newspaper people, @CAPS1! Isn't computers just swell? I mean why aren't they you can one learn up on your knowledge, two you can play alot of fun games, and last but not least we can talk to our friend. Well I hope you enjoy my essay about the computer world. Have you ever had any diffuclty finding something in a libery? Well forget your libery cards just go on the computer's @CAPS2. On there you can fin what ever your looking for. One time I was doing a project on my favorite rocker @ORGANIZATION1, so my mom told me to check the libery for a book on him but I couldn't find one. So instead I just jumped on my computer but not really jump on @CAPS4 but any way so I went on the @CAPS2 and guess what! I found all I needed to know about him getting me that rocking at on my project. i mean ther's alot more you can learn with the computer like what's going on in the world around us or even learn about little world around us or even learn about little insects to big plants. Well that's what I got for using the @CAPS2 for knowledge. Welcome back! Well now I'm going to tell you about a few games you can play on the computer. The game I'm going to tell you about is my favorite game and @CAPS4's called left @NUM1 dead @NUM2; @CAPS5 you never played the game your probably like that game sound really hard and scary well @CAPS4 is. i'm just kidding @CAPS4 can be hard at first and a little scary but @CAPS4's still fun. Another game I enjoy playing is a online game called, '@PERSON1," the game is fun and all but @CAPS4 takes a while to do and kill the fun stuff. For example I'm a lvl. @NUM3 mage and I can take on lvl. @NUM4 @CAPS7 because I can use high leveled spells. but anyways there alot of things to do on a computer. Like me you can kill zombie hared or just do a quest or two, who cares @CAPS4's in you hands have fun. Now the last thing I'm going to tell you about is how you can talk to you friends over the @CAPS2. well like me I moved so I couldn't really hangout with my friends so I got there @CAPS9-mail so now I can talk and see my friends on a webcam. Another good reason to be able to use the @CAPS10 or computer is you can talk to family members who joined the @ORGANIZATION2. My uncle joined the @ORGANIZATION2 and he's going to be leaving soon so I'm to be wanting to see him so I'll see him on webcam or be able to chat with him. Well that my reason why @CAPS4's a good reason to have a computer. One you can use @CAPS4 to learn, two some hard care gaming, and three just talk to friends. Thank you and have a nice day.	10
116	1	I agree with the newspaper, people are spending too much time on the computer and not exercising. everyone knows computers addictive. but people need to get out more. but people making it more addicting by creating things such as never ending games and its distracting people from there life, family, work and exercise.	10
117	1	Dear Local Newspaper: @CAPS1 you think computers are great for everyone? I think computers are one of the greatest inventions ever. What's really great about them is how much you can learn from computers. You can learn hand-eye coordination, learn about faraway places, and talk online to people. Surely, read on to see why computers are very important to us all. Many people think that computers are bad for our mind, but actually they're not. When on computers you can learn hand-eye coordination. You can be able to type well and very fast after a while and improve your eye sight by reading your writing or notes for a paper. Lastly, you can even have fun, relax, and type out your papers for reports. Definitely, read on to see what computers can @CAPS1 too. They're a lot of faraway places that have their own specil way of showing you a great time. On the internet, that have a list of vacation spots or places that grab your attention to visit. They give you details on why to visit it and a fair price. Think about it, would it be cool to visit a great place, like @LOCATION1. Without a doubt, continue reading. Have you ever wanted to play outside but it was raining or your friends were not around. Well, on the computer you can talk online to your friends. You can see how their doing or what their doing and still have a good time. Not to mention, you can even make new friends. Lots of kids and teens go online to make new friends. Surely, you should agree that computers are great. I think computers are very unique and important. That's why so many kids to adults use it the computers so much. They use it to learn hand-eye coordination, learn about faraway places, and talk online to other. Thank you for reading my paper local newspaper.	8
118	1	Dear Local Newspaper @CAPS1, @CAPS2 our technology advance, so do are lives. Computers are a perfect way to better our way of life in ways that are benificial to us and future generations. The use of computers, and the @CAPS5 alone allow us to learn about the way of life in other places on @LOCATION4 talk to people faraway, and express ourselves. Computers give us a bright future. First many people, actually @PERCENT1 of the worlds population are generally stationary, and line in a local town or city environments. This is why computers are so helpful because they give @CAPS2 a way to research other places around the globe. @CAPS3 can create an interest in other cultures, and shape our opinions @CAPS2 @CAPS3 discover things about other places. From there, @CAPS3 can look at different topics in a wide spread point of view. In doing this @CAPS3 will connect to other ways of life. @CAPS2 philosopher and poet @PERSON1 state" @CAPS3 learn about ourselves through the discovery of others." @CAPS4, another particularly handy function of the @CAPS5 through computers is @CAPS3 can communicate with people who live far away, when @CAPS3 couldn't visit otherwise. A @LOCATION2 study showed that actually @PERCENT2 of use of the computer is communication with sites like facebook or @CAPS9. A scientist in @LOCATION3, @PERSON3, says @CAPS3 @CAPS2 humans tend to enjoy communication because it gives @CAPS2 a sense of unity. This is why so many companies are realizing that sites like @ORGANIZATION2, @CAPS6, and @ORGANIZATION1 are gaining in popularity." And this is true. It is enjoyable to @CAPS7, talk, or email others. Without computers, this couldn't be possible. Lastly, computers give us the chance to express our ideas like never before. Now, stars aren't only made in @LOCATION1, but now you can make yourself famous on @CAPS8 or @CAPS9. Just ask @PERSON2, who's voice reached out and caught the attention of a major record company. Now, everyone knows his name and listens to his music. Like @PERSON2, the more wordy folks can express themselves by blogging their opinions. " About half of computer use, " says @CAPS1 to computer weekly, @PERSON4," is using blogs and videos to state one's ideas." @CAPS3 can persuade others to think @CAPS2 @CAPS3 do and discover thngs that @CAPS3 have discovered. Self-expression is very important to society, and this is why computers have such an affect on people. @CAPS2 it is clear, computers have a positive affect on people and society. They allow us to learn about faraway places, communicate with others, and inspire the world around us with our ideas. Welcome to the future.	12
119	1	Dear People of @LOCATION2, @CAPS1 many hours a day do you spend being active? Now answer me this, @CAPS1 much time do you spend on you computer? To many @CAPS2 today are sitting down in front of a computer, laptop, ecetra, while not enough are lacing up their shoes for a jog. Computers are ruining us, they deter our social skills, damage our health and cause us to be lazy. They are unbenificial to our society. To start with, millions of people sign up for @CAPS3, @CAPS4, and other website like these to reconnect with people. Do you realize what this means? Now no one has to get in a car and go visit any one else. There is no longer a need to interact with other life forms, nor is there a want to. Lets say there's a woman sitting on her couch. All of a sudden her face lights up with the thought of her friend @PERSON1. She gets up to go start the car, but hey eye catches on the computer. She bites her lip, trying to decide wether to go see her, or have an online chat. Feeling lazy, she sits down. Do you really want that happening to everyone? To late it already has. Moving along, i'd like to take a moment to talk about our health. As most of us knows, fresh air is good for us. Imagine this, you're walking through the woods on a trail. The crisp, cool air, tickles you skin, and breathing it in just makes you smile. Your entire body feels energized from the treking. With passels of days like this ahead, you can'@CAPS7 wait. Now imagine this, your sitting in front of a computer, in a hot, stuffy room. You back aches from being in this posistion so long. Plus you think your getting a cold and you have migrane. You'd get off, but you have another app request. You @CAPS6'@CAPS7 feel like moving back to reality which do you prefer? Above and beyond all this, there's exercise to worry about. I mean, when's the last time that you yourself went on a bike ride? I'm sure you know that it's good for your body if you exercise, but your to busy on the computer. I think it's safe to say that half of @LOCATION1 would rather update their @CAPS4 than get up and move. It's crucial to our health that we get active. To sum up, alot of us are pondering wether or not to spend more time on the compuer. Well here's you answer, "@CAPS6'@CAPS7." Not enough people are interacting now a days, their spending the best years of their lifes stuffed up in a house, and most importantly, let's face it, their getting fat. Computers are taking over our lives it's now, or never, make the change to a better and more satisying lifestyle. Please @LOCATION1, turn off the computer.	10
120	1	Dear @CAPS1: The effects that computers have on me is that it teaches me hand-eye coordination. I learn stuff from the computer, and it is a fun thing to go on. But, I mean those are only my opinions. Well im gonna just go ahead and explain them to you. The good thing about computers is that it teaches you hand-eye coordination which helps you see better with your eyes. Also it helps you with your hands by making you learn how to catch stuff and how to react quickly with your hands. For example I was playing baseball and I couldn't catch very good and I was also learning how to use the computer and because I was able to type fast my hands reacted when I got grounders and pop fly's hit to me. So I was so happy that I lerned how to use the computer and type. But for sure the computer is the best because you can research stuff and you find out more important facts. Also you are learnen more when ever you research anything. I'll tell you one thing though, I like the computer so much because it helps me find out important details and facts about the person that I am doing my project on. Yes I know the computer is so fun because you can go on different websites such as myspace.com, youtube.com, and funnyjunk.com. I go on mspace to talk to my friends and to meet new people that's what I like about myspace I meet new people and make new friends. I go on youtube because I like to listen to music and I watch music videos on their also I watch skate board videos too cause I love to skate! But one thing for sure is that I go on funnyjunk.com to play games cause they have so much fun games that you can play. But my favorite game is @CAPS2 the hedgehog. In conclusion those are @NUM1 opinions and @NUM1 reasons to support the effects about computers. So I want you to think about some effects about computers and your opinions about computers and compare them to my opinions? But hey! That's up to you only if you want to.	8
121	1	Do you think computers are helpful? Well you should because, They are the most help full object on the market, also @CAPS8 famly members live far away you can im, facebook them or even send @CAPS1 and to them. The main thing for tenes or chidren is easly the enjoyment you could watch your favort showes with a click of the mouse or even play freefun games. The coumputer is a very help full object. @CAPS4 you have bad handwriting and a report is due you go and tipe @CAPS8 up on your computer, and your teacher will think you spent all night. Doing @CAPS8 when @CAPS8 was easy you will also get a better grade. @CAPS4 a big famly trip is coming up you can go online and get the trip easer then you would have , and at low price. Also you can shop @CAPS4 its a birth day of @PERSON1 you can get gifts for a very low price ever @PERCENT1 @CAPS2!!! @CAPS4 your family lives far and you dont get to see them a lot the internet is the place to gp, you could talk to them with instant messgr or you could facebook then. You could them @CAPS3 or, also you could talk to them you can see them on your screen and they can see you on their screen and @CAPS8 would be like they in the house with you, @CAPS4 the a vecation you could send them @CAPS3 and maps of werere your what go even info about the plases. Enjoy ment is the teen favort. @CAPS4 you mst your favort show you could got o @CAPS6 and sec the show for free!!! Youtube is were you could see something funny, excites, or @CAPS9 plain grose. @CAPS4 someone like @PERSON2 @CAPS9 did a asom trick and you mist @CAPS8 look @CAPS8 up . There are two tipes of games you could play games on the internet like addicting games com or play @NUM1, @CAPS7 online are play with freinds. Know you know why the internet is great @CAPS8 has games be close to your famly or even @CAPS9 get help. So chus to say you think the internet is good its your dicision.	8
122	1	Dear Local Newspaper, @CAPS1 @PERCENT1 in town use the computer for at least five hours each day. The people are spending way too much time and not benefiting. Computers have an effect on people but in a negative way. People get adicted and distracted and can't get work done. Many inappropriate things are written in computers that children and adults shouldn't read. Lastly people stare at a computer screen all day which can cause brain damage. Effects from computers can be very negative and not beneficial at all. With children at school and adults at jobs, there is most likely a lot of work to get done, but computers should make a person not get the work done. The other day in class the teacher was collecting homework, but @NUM1 out of the @NUM2 kids in our class didn't have the homework. When the teacher asked why the kids didn't do their homework, they said that they were on the computer and forgot about the homework. When the children and adults don't get their work done then grades could be dropped, or people could get fired. The effect is very harmful, and all this happened just because of the adiction and distraction of computers. Since some internet sources are very social, and not all people are kind, mean and inappropriate articles and language could be read. Many children don't know a lot of bad words and certainly no one wants them to be exposed to learning more, so why let them go on the computer and read about these bad things? Adults @MONTH1 know more about the harmful language, but why influence them to write the bad things or comment using mean tones. If adults and children aren't exposed to these bad uses of language then our world could easily be made up of better and kinder people. Studies show that if a person stares at a computer screen for at least three hours a day, then in about two weeks time the person brain could be damaged. The screen of the computer in some way with the human brain and if stared at for too long the screen could permenately damage the brain. A @ORGANIZATION1 student, who studies computer mechanics, quoted, "@CAPS2 help prevent brain damage by limiting the use of computers to only what needs to be done. The mechanics to make the computer screen are not healthy for you!" Who wants to have a damaged brain? Surely this effect could be very serious. So, in the end people should know that computers are not benefiticial. Computers effect people for sure, but not in a way that people would want to be effected. Adiction and distraction from the computer could cause important work to be ignored. Children and adults do not need to learn or be influenced by inappropriate language on the computer. Brain damage could be a serious problem that could be caused by something as simple as looking at a computer screen. @CAPS2 try to prevent all these negative effects by limiting the use of your computer. It is very easy to stay clear of any negative effects but it is your choice whether to do so or not.	9
123	1	Every where you look people are using computers. Just about everyone has one. Some say that computers are bad for you but they can really benefit society. Computers are used for research, socializing and almost all of our @CAPS1 work is done on computers. One of the main things that computers provide is research information. If you want to find out anything, you can find it on the internet. It is an efficient way to study or find information for school. Before the internet and computers, it would take weeks to find enough information for a paper or business work. This was because all information was found in books. Books did not always give you the information you needed whatever was written was all you got. Because of saearch engines and websites, you can type in whatever you want to look up. It is much easier to log onto a computer and type in a question than search an entire book to find an answer. Computers are the best way to research a topic. Computers are also used to socialize. You can chat with almost anyone on the internet. Being social is one of the most important parts of life. It has been proven by science that social people live longer than people who never talk to anyone. The person you're talking to phnes only give you audio and that doesn't give you the some thing. video chat can allow you to show someone a picture or an expression. Computers allow you to see people that you can't see otherwise. For example, if you have a relative that lives far way and you cant him or her, you can see them through video that socializing through computers is pne of the best ways to talk to people. Our @CAPS1 is mainly run on computers, without them, it would be very difficult to be aware of an on coming attack or threat. The @CAPS1 uses computers to store thir legal files of court cases laws, etc. It is much easier to transfer files digitally than actually sending a paper copy. The store market is also run on computers. You need them to see how you are doing financially computers are essential to our @CAPS1 and economy. Although some experts say that computers do us no good, computers benefit our society very much. They help us research, socialize and they help our @CAPS1 and economy. Computers are essential to our way of life.	10
124	1	I think that the computers are good to be used because anybody can use them at anytime or go on it whenever they want to. The reason why I think it is good is because you can contact someone that you know and talk to them whenever you want. Another reason is because you can play games or look for something or even make a research on stuff that you want to know or about something that you were always curious about. A computer is also usefull for better things like using it for when going to work or when a kid in school needs to do a report of project and needs to do it in typing and also to save stuff that you don't want nobody to use. Computers can sometimes be helpfull to people that really need it and that actually need to use it, but it can also be a fun activity to do if anybody doesnt have nothing to do. I think that the computer is awsome because anybody enough can open up their own website and create something what. A lot of people can go on the internet and open an account on a website; for example a @CAPS1 or a @CAPS2 or a @CAPS3 for that what to have an account. These are a lot of people that use the computer in a good way and use it for things that it can actually be used for. So I think that the computers are avery helpfull to people that like seaching for stuff that there curious about or to have to use it for good needs.	7
125	1	Computers don't have any affect on kids we just love going on cause we use it for help and this persuade the readers of the local newspaper cause we need to be able to communicate also do writing essays and doing social studies or science homework my ideas are let us go computers cause were not bothering u can just leave us alone and let us do what you need to do cause what computers are what give us information for we have to do and were to do wat we gotta do and u people can just leave us alone cause arent addicting to me or anyone and if we were it still would it matter cause a computers a computer u dont punish it because just punish us from the computer punish us because of it cause its the computer fault it can be addicting cause the computer is device that gives us wat we need and the information we also the computer does favors for us the computer is a amazing thing	5
6086	3	The features of the setting affect the cyclist because it is hard to go far on a bike when the place, you are ridding is dry, abandoned, a quiet, hot cold and straight forward. It tells you that the setting is abandoned when if says there was none in sight, not a building, car or structure of any kind"". This would make it hard for a cycler because you need a good water supply and thats hard to keep when there is nothing around."	1
6087	3	The cyclist choose to take an old abandoned route to @LOCATION1. The route had in some places no buildings at all to see making the cyclist loss hope of his need for water. Until the end there was no one on the route making him all alone. So if something happen who would know. During his adventure he ran out of water making him dehydrated that didn't help. The setting of the story seems tragic to the cyclist.	2
6088	3	The features of the setting effected the cyclist very much. The text says, The sun was beginning to beat down"(Kurmaskie @NUM1). The hot sun was making the cyclist sweat. He was losing water. This was making him dehadrayted faster. The text says. "Flat road was replaced by short, rolling hills"" (Kurmaskie @NUM2). The hills the cyclist had to ride up were wearing him out. He was getting tierd faster. The text says. "I stubled into a rather modern in bathroom and drank deeply from the sink"" (Kurmaskie @NUM3). The modern bathroom had good, cold water. This allowed the cylist to drink from it. The water replenished the cyclist allowing him to regain some of his strength. Then the cyclist could carry on."	2
6089	3	In the eassy DO NOT Exceed posted speed limit," It is a clear cut for survival as it seems that this man is fighting to stay alive. As l know cyclists pedal for hours at a time and sometimes for hundreds of miles of he was biking where green grass and cool mountains collide the tone and mood of the essay would of beam completely different.He uses sentences such as "... of two hundred degrees, deteriorating brain, birds would pick me up clean and drop from heatstroke." @CAPS1 all make me want to read further in the essay to see lf he will be ok by thes end of his journey? I know what the feeling is when you are low of fluids because l have chronic dehydrated. I couldn't imagine biking and only seeing desert hiss and passing tumble weed. It sounds like an awful experience. If he were somewhere cooler and colorful his experience wouldnt of been so horrific."	3
6090	3	There are many ways that the setting affected the cyclist. One way is in the story when it says that it was very hot, he could become dehydrated and could possibly have a heat stroke, also the rodes were windy. This could be a problem because hes tired so he might not be able to go around the turns, he might just keep going straight and then get lost even more. That is all about how the features of the setting affect the cyclist in the story.	1
6091	3	The features in the setting of "Rough Road ahead" affect the cyclist. First of all, the weather causes most of his problems. Since the cyclist was biking in a california desert in June the temperature had to be in the @NUM1's. This causes him to become dehydrated, which is evident when he states, "I had been hitting my water bottles quite regularly" The heat therefore causes the cyclist to drive excessively and run out of water, also, the objects the cyclsit comes across on his journey affect him. For example, while riding on a rough path, "a ridiculously large snake blocked the majority of the pavement in front of me." This saves the biker progress and most likely scared him. The cyclsit is greatly affected by the features in the story setting.	3
6092	3	The cyclist was affected by the heat. The fact was June , hes in the desert and has low on water were what almost lead to his own down fall. This hot desert setting sounds hostile and am I'm surprised he lived and that he was that lucky.	1
6093	3	The features of the setting had misled the cyclist. When he had first left the town where the old men adviced him cyclist had high hopes as a looked and senery enjoyed seeing very ? of the struggle.	1
6094	3	The setting affects the cyclist in a large way. He has a hard time going on his journey. He began to lose hope, get tired, and began to think he was going to die. The settings played the biggest role. It was very hot with no people or buildings around him. He had very little water and no place to get anymore. He then encountered a large snake which made it worse because he was in fear with no one around to help him. If he would have followed his own directions instead of the old men he would not have had this problem. The setting around him really made his trip a hard one with no water, people, towns, or buildings around him.	1
6096	3	The features of the setting in Rough Road Ahead, Do Not Exceed Posted Speed Limit, "affect  the cyclist in major ways. First, when the cyclist sees the grape juice factory, he is reminded that he is out of water and is doubtful about even living. The text states, "...A young   pouring a refreshing glass of juice into his mouth could still be seen. I hung  my head "   (Kurmaskie @NUM1 ). The  text later states, "" At some point, tumbleweeds crossed my path..."" (kurmaskie). This tells that the cyclist feels de pressed and is majorly affected by these sights. This could and would later ruin his self esteem and think about diying."	2
6097	3	The cyclist went on a rough journey and he was explaning how tiering it was and difficult it was for him going from town to town having to diel with lack of water poisonous snakes and the condition of the road.	1
6098	3	The setting of the essay didn't really help the author at all on his journey. There were not many structures on the way. Either that, of the towns said to be, a ghost town." @CAPS1 this couldn't have reassured the author that things were going his way. It also was very hot during his journey. The author says he is "traveling through the deserts of California in June." Deserts are very hot places and June is during summer which is the hottest month so it had to have been extremely hot and humid. @CAPS1 all this must have taken a toll because he never really saw anything reassuring until the last town he reached with the bait store. So the setting definitely had to have affected his confidence and his energy levels."	3
6099	3	The features that set the affect of the cyclist is very clear in case of this essay which resene when it @CAPS1 the signs  that said "Rough @CAPS2 ahead: Do not Exceed posted Speed Limit." That had to slow down his bike. "Then he said that their were no building or cars nowhere	1
6100	3	The features of the setting affect the cyclist in many ways. In the essay, it states, This place might have been a thriving little spot at one time-say, before the last world war-but on that morning it fit the tradition of a ghost town." This statement might affect the cyclist in the way that, they fear if they get into any trouble there is no one around to help out. This statement can also mean that they fear that they are going the wrong way. In the essay, it states, "One ramshackle shed, several rusty pumps, and a coral they couldn't had in the larger mule greeted me." This statement simply gives the cyclist the impression that this particular town is juice, and that nobody has even been known to live here in years, @MONTH1 be decades. The different features of the journey of the cyclist in the essay, many would fear the outcome,if they over fear the journey and turned "old timers" who had never left their porches, in order to experience such things.         "	2
3103	2	I feel as we are letting kids these days do as they feel, and do what ever they want. We are making them think that we don't care what they are involved in, but thats not true. We need to set boundries for what kids should and shouldn't be able to do. We need to show them that we know what they doing.     I think that there should be an age policy for libraries. If there are any books that have any types of adult content, they should be in the adult section. If you ever wanted to check out books, movies, or magazines from that section you would have to be eighteen or older. If that was to much to ask for then you should at least have the parents sign a concent form.      Book, movies, and magiznes with any type of adult content can be harzardess to child, whether its through their actions or behaviors. It @MONTH1 effect their lives depending on what age they were introduced to such things. We need to show them that we care.     I know from personal experiences that being exposed to this, drasticly changes people, not over time but quickly. Now a days the media is portarying that money, alcohal, fame, and drugs are good things. This is what we are putting into our movies and books and magazines, and putting into the children of @CAPS1 heads. We are telling them that its ok, but its most certanly not.      These are all the reasons why we should put cencorships and restrictions on libraries. We are letting the children of @CAPS2 grow up to fast and introducing them to things way to early. In a way we are brain washing them on how to live a destructive live, through adult oriented things	3
3104	2	The media is destroying our youth! this is something we hear everyday. Teachers are telling us this, while parents and grandparents are telling us how mush different their world used to be. They explain how the media of their time wasn't as open about sex and violence. They go on to say how they didn't have violent video games teaching children that killing is alright. Because of these people, we think that the media is repsonsible for the wrong in the world of @DATE1. The truth is that it isn't the medias fault, it is the parents. It is the parents responsiblity to teach the children of the world the difference between right and wrong. If these such parent do their jobs correctly then the youth of @DATE1 will not need for everything to be censored. It is my firm belief that their should not be any censorships. When their is censorship people can govern what we learn, destroy what goes agiainst their beliefs, and destroy our god given right to freedom of speech    Censorship will detroy the knowlege available @DATE1. We have had seen censorship in our history. When we look back we see that the @ORGANIZATION1's censored and destroyed anything that went against them. We hated it when they had book burnings and destroyed the custums, art, and music that the government felt was wrong for their people. How would we be any different if we did it. We could potentailly be destroying somones way of life. We would be destroying what could possibly be tomorrows masterpeice. In censoring we would be detroying history.By destroying history we would be detroying the brilliance that is learning.     If we allow censorship anything that goes against our own personal beliefs would be destroyed. If you ask any christian if they would allow their children to read the muslim book of faith, the @LOCATION1, they would tell you no. It would be the same if you asked a muslim if they would let their children read the @CAPS1. The point is that if their is cansorship we would be destroying other peoples beliefs. No one has the right to govern what others believe in the world.     Also in censorship we would be exterminating our freedom of speech and the freedom to express ourselves. If we don't allow peole to read what someone else has written because we believe it is wrong, then we are taking away their ability to learn new ideas because everyone has different opinionsand theories. Every newspaper would shut down because they would all be saying the same thing. No one would want to read them because they would already know what they would hav eto say. When we start giving up rights such as freedom of speech we will not be able to stop those people who took those right from taking more.      Of course their will always be things in the media, in books, and in music that we don't like.Their will be cursing, nudity, and violence everywhere we turn. This is not because we want it there, but because these things are a part of life. They are the dark parts that we dont want to see.  If you dont want to see dont look. Just dont close everyone elses eyes because you dont like what you see.     Our learning, our beliefs, and our freedom of speech are too important to just give up to censorship. We cannot alow others to dictate, in this matter, what is right for us. Our media is too intertwined with our lives. Who's right is it to decide what is right for our lives. If we start giving up these small freedoms then those taking them from us will not stop. They will just keep taking what freedoms we have until we are nothing more that a dictatorship	5
3105	2	Censorship in libraries should not be a big deal. There are materials in libraries that are found to be offensive to some people. To solve the problem, everything should not be censored. Why can't those that find it offensive just steer clear of it? I believe it should be a persons choice to read something or not and if they find it offensive, they should simply put it down.     The book 'To @CAPS1 a @CAPS2' has offended many people. I have read it and was not offended. I found it very interesting and educational. Many people think the book should be censored. But if it is censored, the story would completely change and it would not be the same. I would have learned nothing instead of learning how people lived in @LOCATION1's history.      If all the books and magazines that were offensive to one person were taken off the shelves, and all the books offensive to another taken away, what would be left? Little kids books about kittens? Well that's just lovely.     I am very much against censorship. I believe that if a material is offensive to you, then you shouldn't read it or listen to it. But don't ruin it for the rest of us	3
3106	2	The library is a place of learning, discovery, and knowledge, available to anyone willing to take the time to engross themselves in the rows and rows of information. Including children's books, novels for young adults, @ORGANIZATION1, @PERSON2, music, and movies, the library gives us a magnitude of opportunities to discover something we didn't know before. Although, there are other things that can be found in the library as well. Books including racial slurs, sexual content, and offensive religious comments can accidentally be stumbled upon while searching for something else. A parent should not have to worry about their child coming across a book or magazine containing inappropriate things such as this. I believe that offensive books, music, movies, and magazines should be removed from the shelves of our libraries.      I would like to being by saying that I have an extreme issue with books that include comments, remarks, or names referring to people of a certain race. Imagine if an @CAPS1 @CAPS2 woman brought her daughter of @NUM1 years into the library to find information about a school project. Instead of finding the birth date of @PERSON1, she found a book making fun of @CAPS1 @CAPS4 and calling them inappropriate names. Children should not have to come across a discovery like that in a public facility, where fun and interesting facts should be found; not racial slurs. This type of event could cause serious damage on a child emotionally and mentally. That is why these types of things should be taken off the shelves immediately!     Another issue I have is with sexual content being found in libraries. I do understand that several books contain some sort of sexual content, but I am speaking of a novel describing a sex scene in extreme detail, or images of almost naked women on the cover. If someone is searching for a book of that kind, they can travel to a sex store somewhere nearby and get their fix of sexual reading pleasure. That type of book, however, should not be found in the library. It makes our society look bad and taints our places of knowledge.      Lastly, I would like to express how I feel about offensive religious comments being found in libraries. Every human in the @LOCATION1 is entitled to their own choice of religion. They @MONTH1 practice it freely, which is sadly not the case for others in different countries. If we have an uncommom right such as freedom of religion, then why would we put books in our libraries that include rude comments towards different religions. A @CAPS5 woman should not have to go to a library and come across a book stating her religion is an waste and stupid. This is not the truth, and it should not be in our libraries!      Even though I feel this way about inappropriate books, I understand there has to be some sort of limit when it comes to censorship. Many people fear once we start removing certain books from libraries, more and more books will be taken from the public until almost all our libraries are empty. Yes, if we do not censor within certain limits, this could happen. This is not what I want to happen though. I simply want the people of this community to stop and consider what is easily available for our children to obtain. The least we can do, as parents, is to take books, movies, magazines, and music containing racial slurs, sexual content, and offensive religious comments out of the libraries	4
3107	2	Two of the many privaleges that we have as @CAPS1 are freedom of speech and freedom of expression. Although some bodies of work @MONTH1 be percieved as offensive or inappropriate, I believe that they should still be available to the public. Some might agree with the topic being expressed, even if it is offensive or inappropriate, and others @MONTH1 not; but they should not be removed from libraries because of their negativity.     These offensive or harsh pieces of literature could even be used to show the public what is considered rude, offensive, or inappropriate, and should be thought of as learning tools instead of being banned. Every person has a right to an opinion, and others @MONTH1 or @MONTH1 not agree with what that person has to say, but it does not change the fact that they have the right to their beliefs.     Katherine Paterson says, 'All of us can think of a book that we hope none of our children or any other children have taken off the self'. I myself have read literature that is considered offensive, but as disturbing as the literature was, I am glad that I was educated on what people thought was acceptable behavior so that I know, and can teach others that despite what the book said, we now know that it was describing how people should not be living.     I believe that it would be a grave mistake to remove these materials from the public eye, because many are ingorant to the historical beliefs of others that have affected our nation and other countries across the globe. All of these books are educational, though some are harsh, and they should be used to show what is right and wrong. If they are taken off of shelves in the libraries then people, especially children could start to think that a certain idea, that @MONTH1 be incorrect or offensive, is completely appropriate and acceptable. As someone once said, '@CAPS2 who do not know their history are bound to repeat it'.     By removing the problem, we would be creating another issue. For example, many books have been written over history that convey hatred and discrimination towards other cultures, ethnicities, religions, and lifestyles. If @CAPS2 works of literature were banned and not available to the public, many people would not know that it is wrong to show hatred towards others just because they are different than you. This type of literature provides usefull information: it allows people to see how a large amount of people thought life should have been years ago, and they taught the people of @DATE1 that it actually was how people should not be living.	3
3108	2	Libraries are known as places where a person can go to find material on almost any topic they could want to learn about, whether that material is a book, movie, or magazine. Anyone can use the library, and it is a valuable resource to many people. So why do some libraries insist on removing some of those valuable materials from their shelves?     In past years, censorship in libraries has been the focus of many news reports. In almost all cases, library patrons have been angry that certain materials have been deemed unsuitable to be offered at the library. I have to say that I agree with them. People have a right to choose what books they want to read, what movies they want to watch, and what music they want to listen to. People have opinions; people disagree. What one person loves, another person could hate. But just because one person dislikes or is offended by a material on a library shelf does not mean that the opportunity to use that material should be denied to all other patrons. I feel that if a resource is checked out by just one individual, and that one individual is able to learn from or enjoy the resource, then the library has achieved its purpose and helped the community by offering that material.      In conclusion, censorship in libraries is limiting and wrong. It creates barriers for those who want to learn and it takes away people's freedom to make decisions for themselves. Everyone should be able to decide whether to pick up a library material, and censorship makes that impossible	3
3109	2	Katherine Paterson stated this quote, ' All of us can think of a book that we hope none of our children or any other children have taken off the shelf,' @CAPS1 I agree . I feel that some of the books we have in our @ORGANIZATION1 libraries today just shouldn't be there. Offensive books, music, movies, and magazines can give  students and young children the wrong impact on life or their envoirment around them.     Now days, what children see is sometime what they do, so if books, music, movies, and magazines give them the idea that what they say or do is cool, then kids will most likely do it. @CAPS2 observation when i look at kids  in @CAPS2 community playing  is that they follow one another . When their playing tag and hide an go seek , So movies, books , music, and magazines play a big part on the way they behave.     @CAPS2 own experience with offensive books would be, there are books that are made by @PERSON3. In these books they use curel language, use wonmen bodyparts as symbols and many more rude things. @CAPS2 little sister came across one of these books, when she ask me about it was hard for me to explain to her that this was no book for a child her age to be reading, So the best way for me to put it was that it was an adult book. For her to get any images out of her head that I felt she shound't have.     Another experience I've saw was with @CAPS2 little cousin @PERSON2. He was looking at a magazine out of @ORGANIZATION1 library. The magazine was offensive to wonmen. It was a play boy bunny magazine. Now I don't know if you ever heard of these magazine , but I think it is very wrong that they use wonmen bodys for men to view . I also feel that  those type of magazines should not be in a @ORGANIZATION1 library. I believe it gives children, mainly  young men the wrong thoughts about wonmen.     @CAPS2 overall thoughts on censorship in libraries, is that not eveyone is going to feel the same way I do . There are parents that allow their children to read, listen , and watch whatever they want. I'm here to say i don't feel that is the way to go about things , because it can influence your children to do inappropriate things . I hope you take with you, @CAPS2 personal experience with you and help you children read , listen , and watch age appropriate books , music , moives , and magazines	3
3110	2	Do I think that certain materials such asd books, music, movies,magazines,etc., should be removed froom libraries, no, because people might need to know a certain information, certain lessons are taught in different sources, all sources are liabilities.     Now, you just @MONTH1 need certain information, and in those sources there are an unnumbered amount of lessons to learn. For example if were to go in a library an need a book on religion I would need a book or movie to teech me on that particular subject, or even sex I would need a magazine or move to watch to know new information.     There are different lessons taght in different aspects. For example some people learn by example, movies, music, and magzines. I it were to be me lokking for a source on music theory I might need one of those things to get what i need.     Finally, those things are liabillities. Don't get me wrong like we need them on a daily bases, but in a sense we sort of do. We use search engines for everything, everyday. so what do you think.     In conclusion i believe we need those sources because, someone @MONTH1 need certain information, there are diffferent lessons learned and taught in different things, a lastly ALL sources are liabillities	3
3111	2	The right to remove a book off of a shelf is not good thing to do. My view on the subject is that, if this begins there will only empty shelfs in librarys across the country. Once the removing of books start there will be hardly any left.     We use books everyday, for students we use them to learn and for a entertainment during someclasses. Books help us learn things, like new words we've never heard of before, or some major point in history we should know about. Even as adults some of them like to read in there free time.     I think its wrong to remove a book off of the shelf, just because a few or a bunch of people think its inaproprate. If it is the librarys should have section for those books that dont let the little kids go in that section. their is a problem for this idea, what books should go into this section of the library? A way to solve that question would be to elect a nation wide library service to set it up and have people vote on which books to to remove or put into a speacial section in the librarys across the nation. This idea goes the same for everything found at a library.     Another soulution to this matter is that, the librarys across the nation have another labeling system like the dewey decimal system but use both. this new system could contain information like reviews from crtics about the book, or what happend during the book. This would inform the reader more on what he is about to engrossed in for the next week or so.     The books, music, magazines found in librarys should be left their for a reason. Sombody wrote, or composed for a reason. so people like you and me can enjoy good stories in books and read informing magazines ad listen to good music	3
3112	2	Libraries should never remove any material just because it @MONTH1 be found offensive.  Something that is offensive to one person @MONTH1 not be to another.  If the material was so offensive that it went against the law, then it probably wouldn't have been published in the first place.       People often get offended if they read, see, or listen to something that goes against their personal views, ethics, or religion.  But people need to learn to understand that other people think differently and have different values.  Though peoples' opinions differ, each opinion is equally important to that certain person.     So many media sources today are censored that it is essential to keep a place where people can freely obtain material and express opinions.  As a student I often have a hard time finding meaningful literature in the school library because it is so censored.  I am not complaining about this because I understand that schools have to be careful of what they are exposing students to.  But if I am looking for something maybe more religious, derogoratory, or less accepted, it is nice to have a public library where I can find these things.       In closing, if people are offended by something on the shelves of a library then they shouldn't read, watch, or listen to it.  But do not censor everything so that people who do enjoy these materials can no longer easily access them	3
3113	2	I dont believe books should be takin off of the shelves for being offensive. Some books that are found offensive by one person might not offend another. People @MONTH1 have the right to say that a book is offensive if that is how they feel, but they do not have the right to deny others the right to read that book. I understand that parents want to protect children. Parents should talk to their children and explain to them why they dont want them reading that specific book. Parents might also just let their children read it and explain why they don't approve.      I feel the same way about the censorship of music and movies. When I was twelve years old i started to listen to music that I enjoyed instead of the music my mother played. My mother was concerned about the lyrical content of the songs i would listen to. She refused to buy me the music and would not let me listen to it. I went to my friends houses and listed to explicit music and watched rated @CAPS1 movies. She could never really stop me because that explicit language was being said wherever I went.     I think instead of trying to deny teenagers the music the parents should explain why and let them make the decision. I think censorship should be left up to the parents of that child. Sometimes when parents try to pull their kids closer they actually push them away. That's why I think it's so important for the parent and the child to always talk and be comfortable	3
3115	2	There are many people that think certain books, music, movies, and magazines are offensive and should be taken off the shelves at libraries. If you had to do a project on a subject that was offensive to certain people and there was no information on it wouldn't you be a little upset? If you found somethings that are offensive interesting you should be able to go to your local library and read a book about it, and if you like to listen to offensive kind of music then you should be able to just turn the radio on and listen to it and not have to worry about those kinds of things getting removed.       Some people are assigned projects for either their job or for school work. If the subject of your project was offensive to a certain race or person you would want there to be books or any other kind of information on the shelf at your local library so you could work on it. If all of the offensive books got removed from the shelves at libraries then nobody could be getting there work done.     Some people find some offensive subjects interesting. For example, if someone found the @PERSON1 interesting they @MONTH1 want to just do some research to learn more about it. If the books and magazines all disappeared from the shelves about this subject then those people would not be able to learn more about those kinds of subjects.     There are a lot of people that think most of the music that you hear on the radio today is offensive. If they got rid of all of that kind of music then there would probably not be a lot of music left to listen to, and a lot of people would be very mad. Also, if they got rid of all of those types of music then the writers of those songs would not be able to make any money and would be out of a job.      I think that the people who think these kinds of things are offensive should just stay away from these things and stop complaining. All of the people who do not take these things offensively will be glad that they are not removings books, magazines, music, etc. I hope you take into consideration not removing these types of things from libraries and anywhere else	4
3116	2	I think that if there are books, music @CAPS1, movies, or magazines that we should have a right to take it off the shelf if its offensive. The reason why I think this is, because I have a baby girl who I don't want to see that kind of stuff. I don't want her listening or watching movies or reading anything offensive or vulgar.           I know this is a free country and everyone has the right to have their own opinions. The libraries are paid by tax payers dollars and if we take the offensive to vuglar movies, books, music and magazines then they should come off the shelf.  Kids can read or see or listen the these vulgar things an think its ok or cool to say or do these things.     They can see bad pictures, nudity, drugs and violence. They can see the different types of drugs and learn about them. For example pictures of weed, cocaine or pills are in books. The kids can look at this stuff and see violence. For example they can see pictures of  men hitting women or kids killing kids and this sets a bad example.     We live in a world where people are influenced by the things they read, watch, and listen to. It is important that people are aware of what their children are seeing. The library is a place where many people go to learn. It is important that only people are allowed to see material that is appropriate for them	3
3117	2	Going into a  @CAPS1 everyone has there own opinons as to what they should see on the shelfs, and what should be put out on the shelfs for everyone to see including children of all ages. Some people @MONTH1 agree that there should only be thnigs that is age appropiate for everyone, others disagree.           In my opinion when im looking at this topic, i think that there should be books for everyone to read no matter what the age group, but there should also be a kid section. If parents are so concernced about what types of books their children might see at a library then they could just put them in the children section to view those. There is no reason in the world that there should not be able to be a variety types of books out.          When it comes to looking at magazines, movies, and music i still have the same opinion to a certain aspect. There should be able to be all types of music out on the shelfs, because its not like people can listen to it by looking at the @CAPS2. But my opinion on the magazines, and movies could vary. There is a certain extant for movies, and magazines. I think they should all be aloud on the shelfs, minus any pornography.           The reason i think like this is because, kids should not have that big of an affect on what they place on the shelfs at a library. Parents just need to be responsible and look for what their children are looking at , and pay attention to them. But when it does come to the pornography that should not be exposed in a public place such as a library. There is some where to draw the line, in any situation and thats where i think it should be drawn at a library.	3
11975	5	The mood of the memoir from home: the blueprint of our lives is a grateful @ORGANIZATION1.Narciso tells the story about the way he grew up in @LOCATION1 raised by his Cuban parents. Narciso is very grateful that his parents had taught him to cook and introduced him to Cuban music which he loves. Narciso is @CAPS1 grateful for having parents who have given him much love and sacrifice. Narciso also admires his parents for their persaverence and strength. He has thanked them so many times but he can't show them how truly grateful he is of them. Throughout the memoir Narciso talks about his gratefulness which he sets the mood of grateful.	4
11977	5	The mood that the author has in the memoir is greatful because she keeps talking about her parents and how they gave up their lives in Cuba for her	1
11978	5	In the memoir, the author creates a specific mood to help the reader better relate to his life's story. The mood of this memoir is cozy in the beginning as he describes what his house was like and his own definition of family. As the memoir continues, the mood shifts to how grateful the author feels toward his parents. He describes how their selfless acts of leaving Cuba and creating a new life in @LOCATION1, helped create a strong foundation for him to grow up on. He says how his parents left behind their friends, family and jobs in the hope that their children would have a better life. His parents came to @LOCATION1, with no knowledge of the language and having to endure many hardships in finding and keeping jobs. The author says how he can't put his grateful feelings into words but is completely in their debt for taking such a big risk in coming to @LOCATION1. In the memoir, the author creates a specific mood to entice and interest the reader as they read more about his life.	3
11979	5	The author creates many woods in this memoir. Firstly, a mood that the author sets is warmth. Figuretive warmth. For example in paragraph @NUM1, "Here, the innocence of childhood, the congregation of family and friends, and endless celebrations that encompassed both, formed the back drop to life in our warm home." which is a perfect description of some thing that makes you feel warm inside.Secondly, another mood the author sets is compassion because he talkes fondly and with compassion for his parents. As stated in paragraph @NUM2, "My parents both had to accept that they might not be able to find the knd of jobs they desurved... The faith that this struggle would lead them and their children to better times drove them to endure these hard times." Which @CAPS1 very compationate and full of emotion.Lastly, a mood I think the author sets is acceptance, because his parent were so willing to take in people that werent always blood related. for example in paragraph @NUM3, "My parents always kept their arms and their door open to the many people we considered family, knowing that they would do the same for us." Which States that they were very welcoming and accepting people.These are the moods the author created in this memoir.	4
11980	5	This @CAPS1 shows a lot of different types of moods that oneper son can have towards friends, family, andyour heritage. Narciso Rodriguez explainsthat family is reallyall you need. Hisparents movedfrom Cuba tothe United States sotheir family, especially their kids, could have a good and successful life. Narciso is very grateful that his parents would put their past behind them and their family just sotheir kids could be better people. Whenhis parents firstmoved here they werestruggling both personally and financially. Whenthey camethey went to aneighborhood where there was mostly Spanish, Cuban, and Italian immigrants. In this memoir, it talks a great deal about family, "Growing upin this environment instilled in me a great sense that 'family' had nothing to do with being a blood relative." With different typesof heritages sitting around their table. they noticed that it was not just about who gave birth to you, and who istheir siblings and soon, but who helped you out through your life. Another type of mood that this memoir portrays isthat you have to be happy with who you areas aperson. "My parents always kept their arms and their door opentothe many people we considered family. Knowing that theywould do the same for us." This memoir's moodis mostly about love and who you will be proud about. They're setting atone that says you shouldn't be discouraged about who you are and where you come from, but to beproud about whoyouare asa person.	4
11981	5	The mood the author created in the memoir was... him or herself expressing what it was like but then when something like that happened to them. Also he was explaining how he was really happy that their parent gave up everything in Cuba just to come be with their children, they Also didnt even know how to speak english when they first moved from cuba. So now pretty much their whole family lives close to eachother so they can all see eachother. Even if the parents can't find the jobs there looking for they were going to do whatever to make their family happy. Now that their family together They can spend the rest of there life happy together	2
11982	5	The mood created by the author. Is that @CAPS1 was talking about is that theres some families that come from every were and so Narciso Rodriguez is prowed of coming from Cuba."My parents always kept their arms and their door open to the many people we considered family, knowing that they would do the same for us. "My mother and father had come to this country with such courage, without any knowlege of the language or the culture. I will always be grateful to my parents for their love and sacrifice. So thats what the mood of Narciso's story was like.	2
11983	5	He gives a mood of friendliness and happy memories. He tries to make the reader feel the happy feelings he felt, so that people would understand how he feels and tried to relate to it. Childhood memories are supposed to give those feelings to the reader.	1
11984	5	The mood Narciso Rodriguez is trying to portray in this memoir is very relaxing and greatful. He wants to be able to show his readers that he is greatful for how his parents raised him and what type of enviornment it was. By reading this memoir one almost feels like they are at his house, surrounded by his friends and family. Narciso Rodriguez is also trying to show happyness, how he was happy with his life and always having friends around him.	2
11985	5	The mood created by the author of the @CAPS1 Home: Blueprints of Our Lives is love. One example of this is in paragraph @NUM1, "Growing up in this environment instilled in me a great sense that "family" had nothing to do with being a blood relative." This quote shows that even though they technically weren't family, they still loved eachother enough to be family. Another example is in paragraph @NUM2 and it says, "They came selflessly, as many immigrants do, to give their children a better life, even though it meant leaving behind their families, friends, and careers in the country they loved." This quote shows that they love eachother more than anything. they are leaving behind and would do anything to give them better lives. Lastly, in paragraph @NUM3 it says, "I will always be grateful to my parents for their love and sacrifice." This quote shows that for his parents loving him, he gives them love. That is the mood in the @CAPS1 Home: Blueprints of Our Lives.	4
11986	5	The author of this memoir gave the memoir a peaceful mood. This memoir focused mainly on friends and family getting together to celebrate. It made it peaceful because the author gives the reader the feeling that their was nothing to worry about. The author never mentioned any negative activity in the memoir. He just explained how he was very thankful for how his parents raised him and the lessons that his parents taught him. He mentioned how thankful he was for his parents since they were willing to sacrafice things in their lives for the benefit of their children. The author made the reader feel like Narciso was protected in the house he lived in because all his neighbors were so united with each other that they were all friendly to each other so there was nothing to worry about. They all cared for each other so they would protect each other if anythin bad were to happen which gives the memoir a peaceful and worryless mood. The author talks about how his house was simple, warm, humble, and full of his memories which is another reason I think the memoir had a peaceful mood. When you read the memoir, you can see how the author only talked about good things and a worryless life which really gives the memoir a peaceful mood. These are some reasons that show how this memoir has a peaceful mood given by the author who wrote it.	4
11987	5	The mood created by the memoir is very explicit. He shows that he loves where he is and he doesn't want to trade it for anything. He loves his neighborhood because for him it's like a "melting pot". There are @CAPS1, cubans and Spanish people living there. In paragraph @NUM1, the author explains how his parents house and doors are open to anyone who needs help getting back on their feet. The author also gives a sad mood at the memoir. In paragraph @NUM2, his parents lived in a one-room apartment hoping that one day, they can afford to live in a three-room apartment. That is the mood the author gives off in the memoir.	2
9001	4	@CAPS2, memories, hard @CAPS1 â€ All are reasons why the author conluds the story with this â€œWhen They come back, saeng vowed silently to herself in the spring, when the snow melt and the geese return and this hibiscus is buddng, Then I will take	2
9002	4	The author include s the last paragraph to show that she still has hope. it is the last sentence because @CAPS1  fong Ho wants to show that when all seems lost and your at the end of the line you can always hope for the better when spring comes so will a new beginning not only saeng's plant but also for her life in a different country.	2
9003	4	The author of Winter Hibiscus"chose to end the story with that paragraph to reenforce the theme of the story and conclude with a hopeful tone. The theme of the story is adjusting to new circumstances and making the best out of each change. ""Saeng vowed silently to herself"" tells the audience that Saeng is making an effort to fit in and find the good in her new life. The hopeful tone that is created is a way to show that Saeng is willing to accept changes in life and wants to do her best to overcome obstacles. She says, "I will take that test again". The test represents the obstacles she will overcome when efforts applied. The hibiscus in the sentence ""...when the snow melts and the geese return and this hibiscus is budding..." @CAPS1 starting over. The budding hibiscus is compared to Saeng with a fresh start and determination to achieve her goals of adjusting to a new lifestyle. The author chose this paragraph to conclude the selection to highlight the theme and symbolize a new start"	2
9004	4	I think the author concludes the story with that statement because the audience can then compare saeng and the hibiscus. After reading that statement, I realized saeng and the hibiscus are alike because they are both going to make it through and come out on top, (Saeng getting her license and the hibiscus bidding) @CAPS1 the author might have ended the story with that statement because it shows that saeng is committed to working toward her goal and won't give up. Saeng  vowed silently to herself, "I will take that test again", Finally I think  the author concluded the story with that statement because it gives the audience the satisfaction of knowing what is going to happen to saeng but leaving a little mystery for the audience to fill in how  they want. For example, I know saeng is going to take the test again and I believe she will pass it, @CAPS2, another person reading it might believe she failed again and had to retake it again."	3
9005	4	The author concludes the story with this paragraph to let the reader compare the girl to the geese and the hibiscus. The geese leave for the. winter and then come back in the spring, however the geese also show how the girl is going to come back and take the drivers test again in the spring. The hibiscus dies off over the winter and starts budding again in the spring, this shows that winter is its weakness. Like the hibiscus the girl overcomes her weakness of not being able to drive by remembering her homeland. The author puts this paragraph at the end of the story so you can see that the girl is like the geese and the hibiscus.	3
9006	4	I think the author concluded the story with that phrase because it shows she will mature. She is saying that she was not ready for all the challenges she was going to face, For example she did not pass her test but instead of crying about it she just said I will take it again next year. In the story she also longed for her homeland, which she truley missed. She coped with this by buying a winter hibiscus to remind her not only of her homeland but also of her grandmother overall the main character showed depth and maturity throughout the piece.	3
9007	4	The author concludes the story the way that she does because it shows Saeng's willingness to adapt to her surroundings, just like the hibiscus. Saeng needs to adapt to her new home in @LOCATION1, and the hibiscus needs to adapt for the upcoming winter. Saeng vows to herself, When the snows melt and the geese return and this hibiscus is budding..." @CAPS1 from this, you can tell that Saeng has hope for both herself and the hibiscus. Initially, Saeng was very reluctant to accept her home. She says of the hibiscus, "it's not like the kind we had before." But she realized that the hibiscus could be a reminder of home as well as reminder to change for her new home. She knew that if the hibiscus could survive the winter, she could survive living somewhere new.  "	2
9008	4	The author concludes this story with the promise Saeng made to herself to take the test again, come springtime, because Saeng is having trouble adapting to her new home, and she won't give up on fitting in after only one failure. Remembering her home and that she will never be able to return are painful thoughts to Saeng and memories of it help her cope with her loss. The hibiscus and other familiar flowers she found comforted her, because they reminded her of home. At springtime when the geese return and the hibiscus starts blooming, Saeng will feel ready again to take the test, the spring represents the chance for another try, and a new beginning.	2
9009	4	The author concludes the story with the last paragraph. The author chose because the sentence informs you Saeng will take the test agin. In paragraph @NUM1 Saeng tell's her mother she faild the test. So by the time spring comes around the hibiscus will start budding and Saeng will retake the test. Also the geese left the home temporally because of snow. So she sort of compares herself to the geese because she missis her home. The geese will return when the time is right, that is what the author concludes in the story's paragraph.	2
9010	4	I believe that the author concluded the story with this paragraph because the plant represent to being determined to survive. In other words, the hibiscus brings Saeng a good luck for her next driving test after winter season uhen the hibiscus is budding. Also, the reason why the author concluded the sentence to show what her plan for the future	1
9011	4	In the story '' Winter Hibiscus,'' the author concludes the story with this paragraph  for many reasons. This paragraph shows that Saeng  will not give up, she  will wait for next time  to come around to take the test. It also means she will be well prepared and will have a list  of  confidence in passing  this test. It gives the reader an idea that Saeng will not give up and she will complete the test. Her mother will be proud of her  for it and it shows Saeng will never give up. Just like when she said let's plant it, right now,'' T his example shows that even though Saeng had failed the the test and disapointed her mother,she will never give up and she still has hope in the plant just like how her mother has hope for Saeng.         "	2
9012	4	The author concludes the story with this paragraph because he is talking about when Saeng vowed silently because she is thinking about what had happen a long time ago with her mom, the plants in her garden. Saeng was thinking about when everything comes back how will it be with the return of Spring, when the snow melts how will things be, the geese retorning and she will take the test again, that is what She was vowed silently to herself about. That is how i thik the author will conclude the story with this paragraph included wit it.	1
17983	7	Have you ever learn spritarnt just one turns in your life. I have let ??? you about it. One day I was at home watching too .all of a sudden I had to use the bathroom really bad. Unfortunately they my momma and my sisters had to go. My momma went first and my sister was going next. My momma didn't take very long but my sister was in there while and I was getting mad but l still was waiting patiently. It was holding it in but I knew eventually I new that it was going to come out eventually, but just waiting. I was doing all I can to get in  the bathroom. I was banging on the door trying to just the back and I wait in the bathroom and handled my business. In conclusion, this is a time that I was patient.	18
17984	7	Patience is a virture. It's something that we all need in life. Without it we can't do anything that patience. People would get boring because they have no patience. Now, here's a time I was patient. After @DATE1, I decided to buy on ipod touch. Since no stores were open, I had only one  other option. Online shopping. I used omazon to get it. I couldn't wait to yet it! Unfortunetly I had to wait like a week to get it. It was boring waiting for it, but I had other things to occupy my mind. When it finally come, I was so happy! I was glad I waited. From the patience, I learned you cant get everything rite away, I learned that people who wait, good things will come to them.Also I was better at waiting for everything. That's how I was patient and have bin better at being patient.	18
17985	7	Over the @DATE2, on the @DATE1 to be exact me and my family want to see fireworks at a local park. It was a time for me and my brother to visit all my friends, we were so excited ?? ?? me than an hour to get there. I was so patient because I knew if l wasn't my mom would not be in a happy mood. "Are wether yet?" my brother mouned. "@CAPS1 my @CAPS2, @PERSON1 we just got in the car." I said my brother has always been important, I of course didn't say a word on the way there and everything he said something the ride felt longer.	14
17986	7	Patience is very important in life. I have been patient many times in days. I'm going to tell you about a time that I was patient and it paid of. It was @DATE1, exactly two mounts before my birthday. I went to my mom and asked her if I could get a phone. She said I was to young, and that she didn't get a phone till she was in college. I told her that everyone else had a cell phone but me, this was partly true. She told me she would about it, and that if I bugged her about it again she wouldn't get me a phone. It was @DATE3 now, just @NUM1 more days till my birthday. I thought about what kind of phone I wanted, I thought about what color case I would get for it. I thought about that phone for weeks. Then the day came, it was @DATE2, my birthday. I woke up in the morning to the smell of pancakes. After we ate we went to my grandma's house, because it was also thanksgiving. After dinner we went back to my house for my birthday supprise. I opened my pressants from aunts, uncles, grandparents, and then the last box. I opend it, it was my phone. I was so excited, I called all my friends on my new phone. That was the best birthday ever. It is a good thing to be patient, because I was patient I got the phone I wanted. Thats why you should always be patient, and wait. By; @PERSON1.	17
17987	7	One day when I was home alone I felt nobody was with me. I was home alone because my uncle was very sick and my and parents went to go visit him. I was very scared and I felt @CAPS1 had left me. So I prayed and prayed but I fell or heard nothing back. So I fell asleep and I heard @CAPS2 voice, he was talking to me! I was running in a field will grass. I saw a man dressed in where dating walking through and, and when he came out of the mud there was no sitting or did anymore on him. I ran up to him and asked man who are you?" he replied and said" little child of @CAPS1 why do you look so lonely? I am your angel one I have come to tell you what your father has said," he talked to me for a long time, and I did not feel scared or lonely anymore, there was one cloud in the sky, he said he had to go but that he was my gurdian angle. After that he rose into the deol. I will never forget him, he is my angle. And that was the time I needed to have patience to hear @CAPS4 voice."	18
17988	7	The time when i was patient was when christmas came aroud. At first i just wanted christmas to get here. But my mom told me I had to just wait and  that it will come soon. So I waited and waited because I really wanted a wii consle and the sims @NUM1. So finally when christmass came i got what i wonna and some. Usually @CAPS1 not that patient but the reason I was is becaused my mom told me that it will come soon. I learned that when you really want something or really want to do something the more patient you are the faster it will come.	15
17989	7	Every day I have this kid sit by me on the bus. He is annoying every day but I listen to him anyway. We usely et a long but we debated about things sometime. He tells out rages story about @CAPS1 and snipers. He's not really my friend but he come one to talk to. I think if I listen and talk to this kid is a god sent mission because he doesn't have many friends.	13
17990	7	Have you ever been patience ? I believe we should be patience .I think patience is something weall need in the futher .You can be patience while at the fair ,in the lunch line ,and when your teaching a dog tricks .I'm going  to talk about patience at fair .You should be patience at the fair .When your in line for rides ,you need to be patience .When your getting tickets or a bradet ,you need to patience .That is one way you need to be patience .Now the lunch line .You need to be patience .We all are going to eat so we should wait .I, have people at me all time ,they didn't have patience .That's another way we should have patience .Now teaching your dog  tricks .@CAPS1 one you need a lot of patience .You can't just expect a dog to know tricks @CAPS1 is working progress .You need to be slow and patience .That is why you need to be patient .You need patience at the fair ,in the lunch line ,and teaching a dog tricks .At the fair you need to be patient .At school you need patience .At home you need patience .That is why patience is important .	11
17991	7	Patience is something that people don't have sometimes. I know I did once. And I 'm gonna tell you about it. It was a bright sunny day. All my family members were outside. My dad making hot dogs and hamburgers in the grill. My mom setting up the table. And me and my sibling playing catch with a football. All of us knew how to throw and catch a football but not my little brother. Considering the fact that all of us were chose to teach my little brother. We tried once, we tried twice, but he just wouldn't get the hang of it. Finally all my sisters got tired of explaining him the object of the game, so they gave up. Me, on the other side said it over and over until he understood it. I myself got tired of telling him over and what to do. But then I thought 'hey give the kid a chance he might just get it 'so I just kept on helping him. "@CAPS1 is ready! Come inside", my mom had called out. "Time for @CAPS1 lets go inside" I said to my little brother. "@CAPS2! Just one last time, I promise I will get it!" he exclaimed. "@CAPS3, but just one time" I responded. Even tho he had been saying that the past few hundred times he'd tried, I thought it wouldn't hurt to do it once more. As I released the ball from hands my brother ran up to it and caught it! After he caught it he shouted "I did it" and I looked at him proudly and said "good job" he ran inside to tell my parents that he finally caught it. I was really alod that I had token the time to help him. I knew he could do it @CAPS2 matter how many times I tried or he tried. I knew he would get it soon. And he did! And that was the time I was patient.	24
17992	7	To me when some one is being patient they are in line or waiting for something and they're being very calm. Where they aren't rushed and are very quiet.	7
14967	6	When the idea of making a mooring mast atop the Empire State Building was thought of, builders did not realize the obstacles that would have to be passed. One obstacle was "nature itself. The winds, on top of the building were constantly shifting due to violent air currents." This means that if a dirigible were to be tied up for loading and unloading, it could be moved around freely in the sky, making it dangerous for passengers to be on or around it. An example of the dangerous winds would be in 1930, the "U.S. Navy dirigible Los Angeles approached the mooring mast but could not get close enough to tie up because of forceful winds. A concern for safety was that "most dirigibles from outside of the United States used hydrogen rather than helium, and hydrogen is highly flammable." If something wrong were to happen, there could be great consequences for the heavily populated downtown of @LOCATION2. A third and final obstacle that occurred was "an existing law against airships flying too low over urban areas. This law would make it illegal for a ship to ever tie up to the building or even approach the area." Because of these obstacles, the idea to have dirigibles dock at the top of the Empire State Building seemed impossible, and was never accomplished.	4
14968	6	Now, people know what a ludacris idea it was to have dirigibles dock on top of the Empire State Building; however, in the @DATE1's and @NUM1's people were oblivious to the idea many failures and the obstacles the builders would face. One obstacle that was faced was that most of these dirigibles used hydrogen instead of helium, which is extremely flammable and put the city at risk. Another obstacle was nature, due to the winds on top of the Empire State Building it was hard to bring the dirigibles remotely close to the mast. Yet another obstacle facing the builders of the mast was a law that prohibited airships from flying too low over urban areas like New York City. Overall, the idea could not be projected into a real-life, visual interpretation because of the obstacles faced by the builders of the mast, now people have airplanes and airports to dock the planes - theres no use for the mast on top of the Empire State Building regarding aviation.	3
14969	6	Builders had to face obstacles in attempting to allow dirigibles to dock there. The biggest obstacle is that it is unsafe to have it dangling over the city and thousands of pedestrians. The dirigibles would be held by a single cable tether and that would add a lot of stress on the buildings frame. Another big obstacle they faced was nature. "The winds on top of the building were constantly shifting due to violent air currents." Over @MONEY1 would be needed for this to happen.	2
14970	6	Allowing dirigibles to dock at the Empire State Building caused many obstacles. One of these obstacles was that dirigibles outside the @PERSON1 used hydrogen rather than helium. Using hydrogen was highly flamable. They knew how dangerous it was. In the excerpt it says, "The owners of the Empire State Building realized how much worse that accident could have been if it had taken place above a densely populated area such as downtown New York. Another obstacle people had to deal with was nature. In the excerpt, it says that air currents were "violent" and it would be very hard to control the dirigible. Finally, dirigibles mooring at the Empire State Building would be illegal. It says, "An existing law against airships flying too low over urban areas." @CAPS1 the dirigibles could not dock over a heavy populated city like New York City. Many obstacles made it challenging to dock dirigibles on the Empire State Building.	3
14971	6	In building the dirigible docks on the Empire State Building builders faced an onslaught of problems that should have been easy to pick up on. Everyone got caught up in the hype in my opinion. Outside of the U.S., other dirigibles used hydrogen, which is highly flammable, instead of helium. After the Hindenburg disaster, "... the owners of the Empire State Building realized how much worse that accident could have been if it had taken place above a densely populated area such as downtown New York." Winds also played an obstacle in the construction. "... the back of the ship would swivel around and around the mooring mast." The dirigibles would not be able to tie to the dock and stay because of violent air currents. There was a law holding airships from flying too low in urban areas. "The law would make it illegal for air ship to ever tie up to the building or even approach the area...,". Finally, times changed and planes became the new fad for air transport, ending dirigibles run as the main provider.	3
14972	6	The builders ran into quite a few problems when they attempted to allow dirigibles to dock on the Empire state Building. As stated in paragraph @NUM1 "Most dirigibles from outside of the United States used hydrogen rather than helium; and hydrogen is highly flammable." This would mean that if a docked dirigible filled with hydrogen were to catch on fire it would burn down the Empire State Building and much of the city, killing many people with its explosion. Another main obstacle As stated in paragraph @NUM2 was nature "The winds on top of the building were constantly shifting due to violent air currents". These winds would make it almost impossible for a dirigible to reach the mast and actually dock. In addition the dirigible would be swinging around violently once it was tied to the mast The third major problem was the law against aircraft flying low over urban areas as stated in paragraph @NUM3 "This law would make it illegal for a ship to ever tie up to the building or even approach the area". With the law in the way no one would even want to try. Those are the three major problems found when building the mast	4
14973	6	The empire state building builders had to face hard obstacles by.... "accommodating passengers," new routes, and the greatest obstacle was to nature itself. By accommodating the passengers they had to bring them to the existing transatlantic routes. This was because the new routes weren't made yet. Reasoning being is because the building needed to be more taller. So then they added more things on the top of it. They wanted the State Building to nature itself because the building @CAPS1 Shifting from "violent air currents". Also the dirigible was more open fields to the moor. The State building also was weight down by the lead weights.	1
14974	6	There are a few obstacles the builders faced when attempting to allow dirigibles to dock on the Empire State Building. One was the violently changing wind currents at the height the docking to place. This would move the blimp and possibly send it into another building, puncturing the side of the balloon. Dirigible after dirigible being docked would put a lot of stress on the building itself. It would disrupt the frame and possibly effect the building as a whole. Also most dirigibles outside the United States used hydrogen rather than helium. Hydrogen is highly flamable as seen in the Hindenburg disaster. Due to all these reasons the mooring mast never saw a docked blimp.	3
14975	6	According to the excerpt "The Mooring Mast" by Marcia Amidon Lüsted, engeneers fused several obstacle when they attempted to allow dirigibles to dock in the @CAPS1 state Building. As stated in paragraph number nine, there @CAPS2 problem was "the stress of the dirigiblel's load." With all this weight being transmited to the buildings foundation, the steel frame of the Empire State Building would have to be modified and strengthened to accommodate its new situation This was verry expensive todo. Sixty thousand dollars wer nesciary.Another problem was that the blimps would not stay still while docked The winds would toss it around. A solution was putting waights at the back of the landing fields, but the weights "would be dangling high above pedestrans on the street" like explaine in paragraph @NUM1. 	3
14976	6	When building the Empire State Building, builders were faced with several obstacles in their attempts to have dirigibles dock there. The builders first had to ensure that the building was going to be able to support the dirigible. After they completed this issues relating to safety arose. It was very dangerous to because some air ballons were made out of hydrogen which were flammable. If their were any issues, New York's population could be in grave danger. The wind also was an issue ... because it was so shifty a dirigble would be heavy in the back. Dangling above new york was very dangerous. The last complications that affected the idea of docking the drigbles was "an existing law against airships flying too low over urban area." because of the law, safety and nature complications, builders were never able to successfully reach their goal of allowing dirigibles to dock on the Empire State Building.	3
14977	6	In the excerpt, The Mooring Mast, by Marcia Amidon Lüsted, had many obstacles of the construction of the Empire State Building in allowing dirigibles to dock there. The author states "The other practical reason why dirigibles could not moor at the Empire State Building was an existing law against airships flying too low over urban areas." That law was considered illegal for a ship to approach the area and to get tied up to the building. Another obstacle was the lack of landing area, it was a challenge to expand in New York City, causing it hard to land dirigibles. The greatest obstacle was nature itself, the weather would cause the dirigibles to swivel around the mooring mast. The author states, "Dirigibles moored in open landing fields could be weighted down in the back with lead weights... dangling high above pedestrians on the street, was neither practical nor safe."	3
20897	8	 Laughter is the best way to show someone that they are funny. It is the best way to relax. Everyone says that hearing a baby laugh is great. Watching comedians doing their acts can cheer people up and have them start laughing. Laughter is the best way to relax and here is three reason for that. First, is that no one can stay angry at the person making them laugh. Second, is that when someone laughs everyone around that person start laughing. Third and last reason, is that no one can stay sadden when something funny is happening. What do you think when you hear a baby's laughter? I think that the baby is truly loved by its family. He or she is having a bast playing with someone in the family or themselves. They think that whatever you are doing is funny. A comedian's job is to make a crowd of people laugh at or with them. One way a comedian does an act is stand up comedy. That is when a comedian is on stage and does his or her act. Another way is a comedy. A comedy can be a @CAPS1.V. show, a play, or a movie. Comedies usually do not have a plot, but the point is to make you and anyone else start laughing. That is what I think about laughter. It helps anyone relax. Hearing a baby's laugh is great. Comedians love hear people laugh at or with them.	32
20898	8	 @CAPS6 only happened a few weeks ago on a day the all the students were supposed to be out having fun or sleeping because there was plenty of snow outside. A guy was crying on his chair with his hands over his eyes, a french horn in his lap and his gaze fixed on the ground below him. Sobs choked the sound in the band room but luckily for this guy's pride there weren't too many people in the room to start off with. The guy's head rose up, the tears seemed to eat the self sturdiness of his normal self, and @CAPS2 spoke to the person who always sat to his left. " @CAPS1 just don't understand @PERSON2" the broken, voice cracked on words "I don't care that @CAPS1 play in cascade winds or that @CAPS1 get private lessons or that @CAPS1've gone to state honor band! This @MONTH1 sound like a terrible reason, but i just want to play first because i want to play first, and @CAPS1 never let us play first." @CAPS2 was right about one thing, @PERSON2 really never let us play first. I somehow understood where @CAPS3 was coming from; @CAPS4 my freshman year i had always sat under him, and him under someone else and so forth. I had never seen him be first chair on anything. And now on his senior year, a prodigy child had come into band and she only knew how to fight for her position as first chair. In short @CAPS3's four hard years of working for the first chair spot in band were summed up to being second best the moment she stepped in the room. The feeling of all his hard work turned into mediocre in his face, with time, had broken him to tears.  @PERSON2 was much better than us and she has the accolades to prove @CAPS6. She had attended cascade winds solo ensemble festival, band camp, and would be going to @LOCATION1 as an ambassador of music. Still something about her having first part still didn't feel quite right. Maybe @CAPS6 was my sense of wanting superiority as well. @PERSON2 took in the words, leaned closer to say. " I understand that @CAPS1 want first" @CAPS10 with confident tones she said "but right now we need specific players in specific spots. I've played harder music and my skills are whats needed on first part. I understand what your feeling, ive been there before."  @CAPS6 struck me weird that a sophomore was telling this to a senior. How could she have felt what @CAPS2 was feeling? she'd been a prodigy child in @CAPS7 @CAPS8 from the start. I sided with @PERSON1 but @CAPS10 I realized that letting him play a more demanding part would be worse for the band. So i tried siding with @PERSON2 but @CAPS10 all i could think about was that this was @PERSON1's last year to shine as a @CAPS7 @CAPS8 french horn player.They kept going at eachother. Every comment scraping at the already fragile surface of the argument. Minutes made the quarrel more and more volatile.  I had to think faster. @CAPS9 the argument continued like this the horn section would be torn apart and co-operation would be useless. More importantly I would lose two partners that together had uprooted a great deal of musical talent. I slid my chair next to them to tell them my thoughts. "@CAPS9 a man has no socks," I liked starting out my thoughtful speeches with mysterious beginnings, " @CAPS10 so will...".And that's as far as i got. I thought @CAPS6 was brilliant, their faces said otherwise. So they called me crazy and giggled @CAPS10 they made fun of me and laughed. Thankfully i was oblivious of the stuff they called me because i really wanted to remember what i wanted to say. @CAPS3 stopped crying, finally, and @PERSON2 got my message that @CAPS3 was a senior and didn't really have many more chances at playing first chair in @CAPS7 @CAPS8 band. They settled the fight with a simple deal; @CAPS3 would get fist chair as soon as we stopped competing. @CAPS4 @CAPS10 I've been the center of being made fun of. But as annoying as @CAPS6 gets sometimes its usually funny for everyone, including myself.  I cant even begin to imagine what band would be like @CAPS9 their enmity had risen to the no forgiveness zone. There had been times before when heated discussions left the stress levels in our section so @CAPS7 @CAPS6 made @CAPS6 hard to breath right. Having laughter come in even right before they were about to rip eachother's faces off gave them time to understand that they had mutual understanding of each other. Or opened their eyes to how long they're going to have to sit next to each other i they were to continue fighing. Either way, @CAPS6's definatley changed the way they feel about eachother; I haven't heard them complian about one another for a while. @CAPS3 is eagerly awaiting his turn to shine and @PERSON2 for better or worse can't wait to see him play.	44
20899	8	We're happy together @PERSON1 told me @CAPS2 we lay on his bed. I just smiled and I knew this was going to be a really good relationship. @CAPS5 always made me feel so great. @CAPS5 made me feel beautiful. Now don't say your too young to know what love is ,@CAPS1 I've heard it from my mom every time I talked about him. But I know that no one has ever made me feel this wonderful about myself, made me feel perfect. When we are together it's fun. Most guys I have been with have not been @CAPS2 fun, @CAPS2 in our dates together, walking to the park too sit and talk, eating out to kiss in public. Before we were ever dating, We were best friends. We still are best friends. Everyone asked us @CAPS6 we were dating, The answer was always no we're best friend's, but I always wanted more. @CAPS5 has always made me laugh. I don't think we would have made such a strong couple @CAPS6 we didn't make each other laugh. Just thinking about @CAPS4 I first knew I loved him makes me laugh. I was walking to my @DATE1 class, and out of no where @PERSON1 grabs my arm and pulls me into a huge bear hug, and buried his head in my neck and laughed and said "@CAPS3, you have some toilet paper sticking out of your pants" I felt my face turn twenty different shades of red. I smiled and quietly asked him to hide me so I could grab it. When I got to my @DATE1 class I was thinking to myself @CAPS4 could @CAPS5 just say that to me, @CAPS5 must of wanted to embarrass me. But the more I thought about what @CAPS5 did and @CAPS4 @CAPS5 did it made me feel, well it made me feel like @CAPS5 really and truly cared about me. Wanting to help me out rather then embarrass me. I bet every other guy was laughing. Not @PERSON1... well after that happened we had a good laugh. After we laughed and joked about what happened to me, @CAPS5 looked up and kissed me. I didn't know @CAPS6 that was a best friend kiss, or a real love kiss. So I simply laughed. then @CAPS5 kissed me again. This time I knew it was a real love kiss. We weren't like most couples either. Which made us stand out, and the more we stood out the more people started to hate the fact that we were together. They would say some horrible things to me in the hallway about @PERSON1. Who knows what they were telling him. @CAPS7 some of my closest friends started to make rude comments toward me and @PERSON1. I know @CAPS5 didn't believe anything they were saying @CAPS1 @CAPS5 would laugh at everything people would toss our way. When @CAPS5 laughed I would always ask him whats so funny, @CAPS5 would say "@CAPS6 they rumors aren't true then laugh about them, that way people will know your not bother by them" I would have never thought about that. I'm the kind of girl who wears her emotions on her sleeve, so of course I would get a little peeved with all the stuff they were saying about us. After I started laughing at all the rude and nasty things people were saying,. They stopped talking about us, it was like magic. I never thought about being in @ORGANIZATION1 @ORGANIZATION1 let alone @ORGANIZATION1, and finding a guy that would understand what I'm going through. Let alone someone who is going through something almost @CAPS2 difficult. My brother went to prison @DATE1, and I don't think I could have be able to make it through @CAPS2 much @CAPS2 I did with @PERSON1. I cried almost everyday at @ORGANIZATION1 with him. It's been about a year now. Every time I go see my brother I remember what @PERSON1 said, "@CAPS6 your happy the people around will be happy" so I always put on a smile to see @LOCATION1, @CAPS7 though I know this will be the hardest years of my life. Laughing does really help. @CAPS7 @CAPS6 nothing is funny just laugh. God put you on this @LOCATION2 for a reason, and @CAPS6 you haven't found that reason laugh until you do. @CAPS1 the people in your life mean the world to you, and @CAPS6 they're down bring them up. I love @PERSON1 for helping me understand that life's to short to go unhappy then to have had a life without laughter.	37
20900	8	 Everyone loves to laugh; I don't think everyone understands the effect laughter can have on two people though. For example, there can be two complete strangers, who have never seen each other before in their life; as soon as they start laughing they could become good friends. You'll never know how close you can be with someone if you don't ever sit down and talk, laugh, and get to know them. You could go your whole life being at @CAPS4 with just a minute amount of friends but then there could be @NUM1 other classmates you've never talked to that could also become your friends, too. I'm sure just getting to know one another would make a difference in someones life because for me there has been many situations where laughing has made an impact on my relationship with someone; especially with my best friend, @PERSON1. When I first met my friend @PERSON1 we didn't know each other at all but laughing broke the ice. A simple laugh made us comfortable and everything was less awkward. As soon as we started laughing more and more, we couldn't stop; the rest was history. I went to elementary @CAPS4 with @PERSON1 for @NUM2 years and never talked to her but then when we got into @NUM3 grade we started hanging out with the same people and started talking more. By @NUM4 grade we began to hang out outside of @CAPS4 and talking, sharing secrets, and having sleep overs. But "breaking the ice" isn't the only impact laughing can have on a relationship. When I'm with @PERSON1, I know I can trust her and everything is fun. We always have conversations to talk and laugh about. You could say it made us closer. By the time @NUM5 grade came we were best friends, we had sleepovers every single weekend at one anothers house. When the @DATE1 before our @NUM6 grade year at the @CAPS3 @CAPS4 came we were spending weeks at each others houses. There wasn't a day that went by that we weren't together, talking, or making plans over the @DATE1 to hang out. Now, we can be ourselves around each other; we can always have a good time. Making people closer is just a small part of the effects that just one laugh can do to two people. When I'm sad about something @PERSON1 makes everything better; also vise versa; I make her feel better, too. We always have each others back. I know we will always be there for each other; I'll always have a shoulder to cry on. We have become such close friends that when @PERSON1 was having problems at home she needed a place to live in order for her to not have to go to The @CAPS1 @CAPS2 @CAPS3 @CAPS4, so she moved in with me! It has been the most fun living with her. We thought we would start to argue and not be as close since we would always be together and probably get annoyed of each other but we haven't. @PERSON1 and I can hang out @NUM7 and always be together; it's like having another sister.  @PERSON1 and I are super close, and she plans to stay living with me for the rest of @CAPS3 @CAPS4 until we graduate. It's amazing to think us being best friends and tremendously close, living together, always being together, and being totally comfortable with each other on everything just started out with a simple laugh when we first started talking in the @NUM3 grade. This is why I believe that just laughing can make two strangers, that have never even spoken, can turn into being the closest of friends.	42
20901	8	 One @DATE1 @TIME1 back in @DATE2 a couple of friends and I were beyond bored. Nothing seemed fun to do. @CAPS1 to a movie, @CAPS1 to get some food, not even call of @CAPS2 sounded entertaining. @LOCATION1 parents told us to go do something outside. Before leaving his house he slips into his pantry and grabs two hefty rolls of @CAPS11 wrap. "I think I have an idea" @CAPS3 @PERSON1 as we walk away from his house. I have no clue where we're walking to. @PERSON1 just keeps saying "follow me." We all follow in a pack down the street until we show up at @ORGANIZATION1.   Cold and confused, we sit in the parking lot of the @ORGANIZATION1 waiting for all cars to be gone. Once all the cars are gone @PERSON1 informs us on what we are doing here. He tells us of something he did with his cousins awhile back. You have three people on the roof of @ORGANIZATION1's @ORGANIZATION1 scoping out the road and you have four @CAPS4. "@CAPS4?" I question @PERSON1 with a dumb-found look on my face. "@CAPS5, @CAPS4" @CAPS6 @CAPS4 are the people who will be putting the @CAPS11 wrap across the street. The plan is when no cars are coming in the distance, we hop the fence and put @CAPS11 wrap across the street so cars drive through it and stop. "@CAPS7 sounds fun, but uh what happens when the @CAPS15 stops before the @CAPS11 wrap and takes it down?" @CAPS8 @CAPS9, looking down on the whole operation.  @PERSON1 laughs a little bit and @CAPS8 "@CAPS10 then it will be an inconvenience for the driver." @CAPS11 wrapping roadways sounded a lot for fun then black ops so we were all down.  Everyone gets in position. Mark, @PERSON4, @PERSON2 and myself are down by the roadway in a secluded area by some bushes. While @PERSON1, @CAPS9 and @PERSON3 are posted up on the roof giving us updates about the oncoming traffic. We get a call from @CAPS9 saying that it is clear for awhile. I hang up the phone, tell the guys and @DATE3 up from the ground. We all get over the fence in quick time and start a first layer of @CAPS11 wrap. I get another call. It's @CAPS14 saying that there are three cars are almost to our location. We drop the @CAPS11 wrap in the bush and get back over the fence. The @CAPS15 comes up close and it's a cop. Of course. We all just stay hidden down in the bushes while the cop takes our huge roll of wrap. We are only left with one more roll , which should before enough.  @CAPS9 calls again and @CAPS8 it's clear. We go out again and start to set up the prank. We wrap it around @NUM1 times and make it as tight as it possibly could be. Perfect.  "@CAPS15 incoming! Go! Go! Go!" yells mark while trying to get over the fence. We all make it over in time and go prone in the field. Laying there anxiously someone whispers "here it comes."  The @CAPS15 slams on it's breaks, and the driver gets out. He looks at @CAPS11 wrap in disgust and looks around for the kids responsible. @CAPS9 lets out a big "hahaha" from the roof that even we can hear perfectly. The guy walks up the fence looks around a bit more and mutters for foul words under his breath. He didn't even bother continuing through, he just got in his @CAPS15 and backed up."@CAPS16 my god dude that was hilarious!" I say with a wide grin on my @NUM2 @CAPS9 and @PERSON3 come dashing through the field with a scared expression on all of their faces."@CAPS18!" yells @CAPS19 scurried into different directions. Mark, @PERSON2 and I jolt over the fence and hide in the play structure for awhile. While the rest of the boys are booking it to a safe haven. We eventually all meet back up at @LOCATION1 house without getting "caught" by the authorities.  It's nights like @CAPS6 were laughter really plays a key role between a big group of friends like I have. The laughing and running makes us closer as a group. it brings us together.	40
20902	8	 I agree when people say laughter is what mostly brings people together. In my opinion, @NUM1 of the time your talking to someone, laughter is needed. It is what brings the dullness out of a person, and makes the conversation interesting. Only when you are talking about something serious, you dont need to include laughter, but ill explain later. So I can easily tell a true story about laughter from my life. Right now i have a perfect group of friends. Sure there are times when they mess up and act like kids, but i feel like i need to forgive and remember that they are there when i need them. Anyways, i can remember the first time i met each one of them, and the one thing that started our friendship was a joke. I can't exactly remember which joke we shared, but i do remember that we all had the same taste in comedy. And once we saw that neither of us were serious and dull people, made us want to spend more time with eachother. That is why laughter builds a string between different people, and brings them closer together day by day. So as time passed, my friends and i were really drawn to eachother. What i mean is that, from time to time, we were happy to express our friendship through jokes. Sometimes the jokes are really stupid. Many of them have caused pain - physically, and have caused us to bring revenge on eachother. But that is just how, we stay close to eachother. Day by day, when we see something funny on the television, internet, or real life, we always show it to eachother, and know that after showing this prank, or whatever it is, the other person will find it very funny. It makes us feel closer, and know we all have a same taste in atleast one field. I can give one clear example of this: I was watching a comedy once, and the comedian was talking about his childhood, and a prank he once played on a strangers house. Right when i saw this video, i knew right away, my friends had to see this, because i knew from past experiences, that they enjoy these types of laughs. And i was right, as soon as they saw the show, they were amazed at how funny it was, and they were glad i shared it with them, we got closer than ever. I want to share one more example from my life, about laughter bringing two people closer. So after telling you that laughter gets me closer with friends, i also want to point out that laughter brings out a sence of outline when if you talk to girls - or boys, if you're a female. So i met this one girl, and everytime i talked to her, everytime i had to throw in a joke or a story that would make sence to our subject. After a while, she started joking around, and making stories too. She told me that she saw me as a different guy, comparing me to other people. She said that she meant i wasnt a boring type of person, and that it kept her wanting to keep talking to me. I always hoped not to be a dull person, and jokes made that not happen. Now, me and this girl are closer than ever, and the root that started this relationship was laughter. So as you see, laughter makes any relationship happy and open. Of course im talking about the relationships that are playful, i meant there are people out there that take everything serious, and can't take a joke. But i would really encourage you to take laughter in your life, if you already havent. Look in my life, i used laughter, and gained a lot of friends, of all sorts - just by joking around about something stupid. You don't have to say stupid things, but I say it would really make your life more interesting if you use laughter.	40
20904	8	 These are some example that i remember when i had fun and laughter in my life  @CAPS1 all started in the @DATE1 time when i was like @NUM1 years old and my cousins were living with @CAPS3 cause they had just moved down to @LOCATION1 from @LOCATION2. @CAPS1 was fun having them around. @CAPS3 and my cousin @PERSON7 and my cousin @PERSON3 who lived right next to @CAPS3 would always ride bike. Some times joey would take my bike with out asking @CAPS3 and i would get so mad at him.he would take my bike like if @CAPS1 was his. @CAPS3 and my cousins would always race down the street with our bikes.  I was always the one to win the race the kind of bike i has was a @PERSON4 @CAPS1 was a @CAPS2 bike witch is a bike made for the dirt and to race. @CAPS3 and my cousins would go behind some apartment down are street and there was a ramp that we made. @CAPS1 was just dirt but @CAPS1 was hard. One day when @CAPS1 was raining so hard @CAPS3 , @PERSON7 , @PERSON3 and another neighbor of our asked us to come out side to we asked our parents if we could and my parents said @CAPS1 was okay same with @PERSON3. Joeys @CAPS4 said he could not cause @CAPS1 was raining hard outside but he still came outside. we had got all muddy i ad fell of my bike trying to go up the ramp while @CAPS1 was all muddy. then my cousin got like beat up from all the time he fell off the bike.  By the time we were done playing out side we were so muddy and our bikes were filled with dirt. my @CAPS4 was mad at @CAPS3 cause i was so muddy so she send @CAPS3 straight to the shower . @CAPS3 and my cousins had a good time that day after we were all done getting cleaned up we were playing super @PERSON5 bros for super @ORGANIZATION1. If we were not playing the super @ORGANIZATION1, riding bikes or getting wet with water gun and water balloons since @CAPS1 was so hot out side. We were probably on our way to the park for free lunch the school would always serve free lunch to who ever want free lunch. a lot of my friends would go to the park and get lunch same with my cousins after we would finish eating @CAPS3 my cousin @PERSON3 and my friend @PERSON1 would always trade @CAPS5 cards or @CAPS6 @CAPS7 @CAPS8 cards back then every body had @CAPS5 or @CAPS6 @CAPS7 @CAPS8 cards. i had piles of cards. @CAPS1 was fun being at the park with friend and family just having a fun time eating playing getting wet in park. When i was in @NUM2 grade @CAPS3 @PERSON2 @CAPS14 and @PERSON6 @CAPS15 were like the three amigos we would stay at @ORGANIZATION2 house like almost every weekend. we would always stay at @ORGANIZATION2 house because his back yard was big and we would always play hide-seek and cause @PERSON6 had like a play room with a pin ball machine a basketball hoop and other games. One time on @ORGANIZATION2 birthday @CAPS3 @PERSON2 and @CAPS17 slept over at @ORGANIZATION2 house and we were just playing video games like one of the games we played was grand theft auto @CAPS18 @CAPS19 @CAPS1 was a cool games.  I think that laughter is a big part in friendship cause if your having a good time hanging around with your friend and just laughing then that mean that hes a good person . If your friends always make you laugh then there good friends to be around with. Like i would always hang around with @PERSON6, and @PERSON2 cause they would always know how to make @CAPS3 laugh .So thats why i think laughter is inportant to havewith friends or family. 	30
20905	8	 Someone once said laughter was the best medicine. To me it was like someone was saying "@CAPS1! Life isn't gonna get any better so just enjoy it while you @CAPS6!" @CAPS2 that's what I did for a while, but laughing at everything got old very quickly. Sad to say I still laugh at most things, even sad things. I laugh because I think that if I do then everything will just get better. That's not even close to what really happens. In fact it @CAPS6 only cause more pain and suffering in most cases. Like the time where I met this guy named @PERSON1. He was amazing. Most people who met him thought he was a god and when he heard people talking about him like that he would always get very upset. He was a human. Nothing more and nothing less. That's how I saw it and that's how he saw it too. When we first started talking to each other it was between notes I would give my friend @CAPS3 and @CAPS8 would give them to him. He was a very shy guy so he never wrote back on a piece of paper. Instead he had @CAPS3 tell me what he said. Then he finally got the idea to wright messages in her phone and then I would read them and answer back. it was fun for a while but I wanted to actually meet the guy. I had seen one of his rare pictures and it was true he was very handsome but nothing like a god. He didn't have a wreath over his head with one of those @CAPS5 god skirts. Nope, he was just an ordinary kid who dressed like a skater and was just a real inamorata. He had jet black hair (he dyed it), bright green eyes, and a smile that could shock the whole world.  Signs were going off in my head telling me to be careful but I never listened to them, they only made my life worse. So one day a few of my friends and I were in @LOCATION2, @LOCATION3 with our teacher for a calligraphy convention when @PERSON2 (my friend) starts text messaging someone. I was a little curious so I asked in a friendly way who it was. @CAPS8 said it was @PERSON1 and my heart seemed to jump. "@CAPS6 you tell him I say hello?" "@CAPS7." @CAPS8 told him I said hello and he asked if I was really there and @PERSON2 said yes. That's when we actually got to talk to each other more than once a day. We talked all the way back to @LOCATION1. A few months went by and we were back to our old way of talking to each other. He was very kind and never did he have a bromidic moment. He told me about his family (which is a little strange, but I don't judge), his life, his future, what he felt and how he wished he could see me so he could give me a big hug (another of @CAPS3's friends said the same thing but @CAPS8 said he wasn't aloud to). I talked to him about all of it and it was like we understood each other a little bit. I told him about my life but there really wasn't much to tell since my life has always been bromidic. I thought we could actually make things work between us, that is until he moved to @LOCATION2. I was a little upset but it really didn't bother me except the fact that talking to each other became almost as rare as seeing a different picture of him.  While at school one morning @PERSON2 came over to me and had a careful gaze. I asked what was wrong and then @CAPS8 asked if anything could ruin my day. I told her that only going home would and we laughed a little about it. I knew something was wrong and that it had to do with @PERSON1 but I just acted oblivious to it hoping it would lessen the blow I knew was about to come. @CAPS8 said he had told her it wasn't going to work out between him and I. I sat there and like the idiot I was I said I knew it wasn't going to anyways, he was him and I was me. @CAPS8 said he was sorry and all these other excuses but I wouldn't listen. Instead I ignored it and went on with my life like I think everyone should. Of course a few months later he asked @PERSON2 out but I let it go just as @CAPS8 did when @CAPS8 said no to him and they stopped talking to each other. So who ever said laughter was the best medicine obviously hadn't experienced the after effects of it all. 	50
20906	8	Trust is a huge deal between friends. Friends agree on the same things, say an honest opinion about it, and don't lose the trust between a great friendship. You never know who can stay by you with a full amount of trust between you two.When you trust a friend you depend on them to keep things between each other. Just like my friends and I. We agreed on telling each other everything that has happened and not to lie about anything. We agreed on everything based on trust. Our friendship has always been great with not lying to each other. Telling each other how we feel about certain things. Then we put all our opinions together and come up with a solution that we all agree on. That's why you should depend each other like a team. When you break a trust between a friend, you probably won't get the same trust you had before. You don't really get told anything as much as you use to. An it's like you never should have lost the trust with a friend. You don't seem to be the same because you aren't trusted that much. You get told it was your fault lying or for any reason to be not trusted. Like this one time one of friends didn't tell me the whole truth of what she was doing behind my back. Till I found out what she was doing I lost most of my trust with her. She's not trusted as much she was before, but we are still friends.That's why having trust is a big deal in a friendship or any kind of relationship. You learn to trust each other in different ways, get to know each other more by having the trust between you and other person. You get a lot more attention when you have that trust with other people. You don't seem like you are left out on anything. You see that you can trust more people to when you get to know them. Who knows that you have trust for another person who isn't your best friend.So we all know that trust is a huge deal between two people or maybe even more. You need to work together for the trust. Have a good friendship or relationship to anybody as long as there is trust between you guys. My friends and I have learned a lot from trusting each other in different ways.	44
20907	8	 One day @CAPS17 I was having trouble trying to cope with some very big changes in @CAPS13 life, I seeked the help of a friend. Usually @CAPS17 i'm having a bad day I @CAPS14 keep to myself. This was an occasion @CAPS17 I need someone else there to help @CAPS2. @CAPS17 I went @CAPS5 met with @CAPS13 friend she tried all she could to cheer @CAPS2 up but nothing was working. @CAPS6 she said "@CAPS1 hear a story?" @CAPS2 wanting to hear anything that would take @CAPS2 out of this slump I was curently in said "@CAPS3, @CAPS4 @CAPS12 think it will help."@CAPS5 @CAPS6 she began.   "The other day @CAPS13 family @CAPS5 I went grocery shopping. We were gone for probably four hours. I stopped her right there @CAPS5 asked her how this was relavent to making @CAPS2 feel better @CAPS5 she said "The more details the funnier it is." I told her to continue. She continued, "@CAPS6 we got home @CAPS5 the parents started unloading the grocerys. While they were doing that @CAPS13 sister @CAPS5 I were in the living room teaching our dog how to sit, lay, shake, speak, @CAPS5 roll over. Everytime she did a trick we would give her half a dog treat. @CAPS17 the parents were done putting the grocerys away they walked in the living room @CAPS5 we showed them the tricks we had taught our dog, they had yet to see them.   After we showed them all @CAPS13 father had to say was "@CAPS7 @CAPS3 @CAPS12 put the dog treats up @CAPS6 she doesn'@CAPS11 get into them." I replied with a simple "@CAPS8." @CAPS6 the parents said they would be back that they were going to get pizza because they didn'@CAPS11 want to cook after a long day of shopping, @CAPS5 @CAPS6 they left. While they were gone @CAPS13 sister @CAPS5 I straightened up the living room @CAPS5 continued to train the dog. @CAPS17 the parents got back we all sat @CAPS5 @CAPS5 began to watch @CAPS11.V. @CAPS5 eat our pizza. After @CAPS5 while @CAPS17 everyone was done eating we were still in the living room @CAPS5 @CAPS13 sister @CAPS5 I heard @CAPS13 dad in the kitchen complaining about not being able to find the cookies they @CAPS14 bought.   I looked at @CAPS13 sister @CAPS5 said "@CAPS12 know what would be funny? @CAPS4 dad thought the dog treats were cookies @CAPS5 ate one." @CAPS13 sister giggled. Our dad came stomping into the living room @CAPS5 threw himself on the couch, acting like a four year old boy who @CAPS14 got his game taken away. We began to laugh @CAPS5 our dad looked over @CAPS5 scolded us, then looked back at the @LOCATION1. Then out of nowhere @CAPS15 said "I found them." Or what @CAPS15 thought was them. @CAPS15 reached for the dog treats on the coffee table.   @CAPS13 sister @CAPS5 I didn'@CAPS11 dare speak a word. We watched him. @CAPS15 looked at the @ORGANIZATION1 @CAPS5 reached his hand into the bag of dog treats @CAPS5 pulled one out. @CAPS15 looked at us @CAPS5 we looked away momentarilly. Then our eyes fixed right back on him, beyone our control. We @CAPS14 had to watch. @CAPS15 looked away to the @LOCATION1 again @CAPS5 put a whole dog treat in his mouth. @CAPS15 began to chew. Then @CAPS15 slowed down his chewing @CAPS5 tilted his head to the side, @CAPS14 like a dog would. What a coincidience. Then it sounded like @CAPS15 choked on a piece of it @CAPS5 @CAPS15 began to cough. @CAPS15 spit dog treats all over the back of @CAPS13 moms head who was sitting on the floor.   @CAPS13 sister @CAPS5 I began to laugh histariclly beyond our control. @CAPS13 dad was @CAPS14 sitting on the couch with a straight face, I swear we could see the smoke coming out of his ears. @CAPS15 began to yell about how we should have put the dog treats up @CAPS6 this wouldn'@CAPS11 happen but in mid sentence, @CAPS15 @CAPS14 couldn'@CAPS11 help it anymore. @CAPS15 began to laugh. @CAPS6 we were all laughing, then we look at @CAPS13 mom who was still sitting on the floor in still in shock because she got sprayed with chewed dog treats. We could stop laughing, @CAPS6 then she began to laugh." @CAPS17 she told @CAPS2 this story @CAPS5 laughed @CAPS6 had I cried. Then I realized "All @CAPS12 need is a little laughter in your day to brighten your life."	36
20908	8	 Have you ever had a fear of falling off of a cliff when up in the mountain? I have, I actually had that experience. It was a @DATE1 @TIME2 @PERSON1 we had just gotten off of the bus. I had grabbed all of my gear from the storage from under the bus @PERSON1 headed for the slopes. we strapped in our boots @PERSON1 went to the lift to catch a chair up. I was with my friends @PERSON1, @PERSON1 all three of us joined the snowboard team at school that year. The three of us caught a chair up to the top of the run. The air was so crisp, @PERSON1 the snow was a fresh blanket of powder. We were all so excited to go ride in that perfect of a @TIME1. As we went down the run, it was the same old usual every @DATE1 @TIME1. so I talked to my friends @PERSON1 suggested that it was time we went through some new trails. They agreed, so we went down through @TIME1 new area. It was a good trail with many jumps @PERSON1 a lot of powder. It seemed like a perfect area to board in. We all enjoyed it very much. But we realized that it was coming to the end when the trail was getting a little narrow, then suddenly, there was a drop right in front of us. I shifted my board sideways so I can stop, but it didn't help. It was a patch of ice that i hit, @PERSON1 it was no use. I couldn't stop. I fell off, @PERSON1 braced for impact. I was thinking that I was about to be seriously injured because of the rocks below. But luckily, my board was the first to hit the rock, showering the cool @TIME1 with sparks lighting it up. I slid down the snow a couple more feet, trying to stop myself. As I came to a stop, I looked back wondering how I survived that. I was worried that my friends would do the same, but they had stopped just in time. We all couldn't believe on what just happened. I learned a lesson from @TIME1 of to always scope out the area first before you go through it. I luckily was not hurt, I could have been seriously injured.	35
20909	8	 Laughter, everyone from babies to old people do it. Laughter is an element that helps in life. They say that "laughter is the best medicine" it truly is. Laughing lets people know that you have a good sense of humor and that you like to have fun and let loose. In any friendship, relationship, job or sport you need to laugh every once in a while. You can't always be serious. Being serious @NUM1 as they say is not good, it makes people seem like they don't know how to enjoy life or they have no sense of humor.  In the @DATE1 I had a rough volleyball season. A lot of my teammates had problems with me, because I was chosen as captain along side my friend @PERSON1. We weren't the most well liked, but we were liked by some. It was hard for @PERSON1 and I to prove that we were right for the position of captains and that we could lead the team. A few of my teammates at the time quit because they did not want to deal with @PERSON1 and I being captains, but as they quit we moved people from junior varsity up to varsity. The new varsity members had it rough, they struggled a bit trying to get the hang, but they did it they managed to get the hang of how varsity plays and practices. Soon after our mishap of having to replace seven out of fourteen players we had our first game. The game was one of the toughest we had the whole season. In our first set of the we didn't exactly have our minds in it for the first of what would be come a five set, game. We battled back and forth a few points in the first set, but we ended up losing that first set. We went into the second set not knowing what we were going to do whether to give up or half-@CAPS1 it was tough, I as one of the captains said "@CAPS1, we won't get anywhere unless we @CAPS1." then @PERSON1 says "I agree, lets @CAPS1 our best and not let them get an easy win." We did exactly that we tried and we won that second set. It was the third set and we had started to get tired and feel aggravated, so we pushed forward we won the third set. One more set and we would win it. We went on the court and the ball was served we let the ball hit the ground point one to the other team. After that first point it went down hill we let them get the best of us and they won the set. It had come down to the fifth and final set were we would either win or lose. We got on the court knowing that we might lose and started. The first point went to us we went back and forth a ton in the final set. It was a tough battle, but we had done it we won. Later in the season we met the team again and it was a hands down battle we had lost the second time we met them it was not easy at all they didn't allow any room for errors on their behalf, but us we let it all slip. It was time for the state playoffs we had made it to the state finals. The team we were playing was the team we had faced twice before and we were one and one. The line-up was called, national anthem sang, and the coin was flipped, we would receive the serve. The game was in full swing, we were doing great we won the first set by four a tough first game. We went into set two, we lost control. We didn't do what we were suppose to do. We lost the second set it was and confidence hitter. We were down we didn't know what to expect in set three, and as captains the team seeing @PERSON1 and I should have not let ourselves be down. We looked at each other with that look I knew and we just busted out laughing we couldn't stop the team wondered what was wrong. So we explained that in order to win we had to laugh we @MONTH1 feel down, but you have to laugh and the team did we went into the third set confident as ever and we won we didn't stop there we went into the fourth set and won. We had done what we set out to do win! In the end laughing was what we needed to do we had come this far that we could either give up or push and succeed. We looked at the two previous games that we had met the other team before and laughed. We made that our team motto "laugh until you cry, and cry until you laugh" the season was great looking back on it we were state champs. Now in @DATE2 season we are hoping to repeat state champs.	10
20910	8	 Laughter is a major component in a relationship. Laughter once saved my best freinds relationship with his girlfreind. They had just goten ito the bigest fight I have ever seen. The fight started over something so small and insignificant that neither of them could remember what it was. The fight had a snowball affect untill neither of them knew what they were fighting over. Then one day, while they were taking a break from fighting, we went to see a funny movie. A while into the movie I got up to go to the restroom, and when i got back my freind and his girlfreind were both lauphng histaricly. I asked them what was so funny, but they wouldn't tell me.  @CAPS4 the movie we went to a @CAPS1 restorant for dinner. While we were being seated my freind mumbled something i couldn't hear to his girlfreind, and she burst into laughter. I again asked what was so funny, and again they replied that it was nothing. During dinner, which was extrordiary for @CAPS1 food, my freinds girlfreind got up to go to the restroom. @CAPS4 she was out of earshot, my freind turned to me and said, "@CAPS3'll never beleive what just happened. Me and her aren't fighting any more. @CAPS4 @CAPS3 left to go to the restroom, I asked her if she could remember what we were fighting over, and she said she had no idea and was just fighting because she diddn't want to loose the arguement. @CAPS4 she said that I fessed up and said i was argueing for the same reason. this made us laugh so hard because we boh realized that the argument could have been over long befor that night." @CAPS4 this I almost never heard of them fighting again. This was untill they got into another arguement when she moved out of state. The arguement was over the fact that he wanted to do a long distance relationship, but she didn't want to. Since laughter saved their relationship for a little while I strongly believe that Laughter is an important part of a relationship. It also serves as an excelent ice breaker for a conversation.	10